about: Founded in 2003, we are an IT service provider with a global reach. We have offices and customers in the United States, United Kingdom, United Arab Emirates, and Pakistan. Our team of over 250 employees has helped us achieve remarkable milestones, such as developing software, websites, and mobile apps for businesses of all sizes. We also offer a broad range of service including call center and customer support, cyber security, and startup assistance. Our commitment to excellence has made us a reputable brand name among local and foreign clients. Arpatech empowers organizations with cutting-edge IT solutions that drive innovation, enhance efficiency, and ensure security. We deliver exceptional IT services and support, enabling our clients to focus on their core business. Arpatech seeks to be the preferred partner for businesses seeking cutting-edge IT solutions. We aim to lead the industry in delivering innovative and customized technology services that foster growth, competitiveness, and resilience. Arpatech: A Timeline of Growth and Innovation Arpatech started as a small IT service provider with just 5 employees back in 2003. In 2004, the company acquired a major global cybersecurity provider, Certstation, before launching other two key Data Security management and Software development. In 2006, the company quickly grew to 30+ employees and added a graphics design department, while becoming an offshore development house for GlobalServe in 2007. We offer a wide range of services to help businesses of all sizes grow and succeed. Our services include: If you are looking for a challenging and rewarding career in fast-growing company where you can harness your best potential and experience to the fullest, then you should consider joining our team at Arpatech. We are a leading IT company that is constantly looking for ways to expand our capabilities in this area. We offer competitive salaries and benefits, and we provide our employees with the opportunity to learn and grow in their careers. Founded in 2003, we are an IT service provider with a global reach. We have offices and customers in the United States, United Kingdom, United Arab Emirates, and Pakistan. A Timeline of Growth and Innovation Arpatech started as a small IT service provider with just 5 employees back in 2003. In 2004, the company acquired a major global cybersecurity provider, Certstation, before launching other two key Data Security management and Software development. In 2006, the company quickly grew to 30+ employees and added a graphics design department, while becoming an offshore development house for GlobalServe in 2007. The growth years, from 2007 to 2013, were a time of rapid expansion for Arpatech. The company won awards for being the third fastest growing company in Pakistan and for its work on Certstation security software. The company opened a new office in Karachi and expanded its Support Operations Center. From 2014 to the present, has seen Arpatech continue to grow and innovate. The company achieved Magento certification, launched cloud managed services, and become ISO certified. It has also invested in 22 ventures and opened an office in Islamabad. If you are looking for a challenging and rewarding career in fast-growing company where you can harness your best potential and experience to the fullest, then you should consider joining our team at Arpatech. We are a leading IT company that is constantly looking for ways to expand our capabilities in this area. We offer competitive salaries and benefits, and we provide our employees with the opportunity to learn and grow in their careers. The growth years, from 2007 to 2013, were a time of rapid expansion for Arpatech. The company won awards for being the third fastest growing company in Pakistan and for its work on Certstation security software. The company opened a new office in Karachi and expanded its Support Operations Center. From 2014 to the present, has seen Arpatech continue to grow and innovate. The company achieved Magento certification, launched cloud managed services, and become ISO certified. It has also invested in 22 ventures and opened an office in Islamabad. If you are looking for a challenging and rewarding career in fast-growing company where you can harness your best potential and experience to the fullest, then you should consider joining our team at Arpatech. We are a leading IT company that is constantly looking for ways to expand our capabilities in this area. We offer competitive salaries and benefits, and we provide our employees with the opportunity to learn and grow in their careers. A Timeline of Growth and Innovation

advanced: With our e-commerce web design and development services you will attract your audience and drive results, delivering a seamless user experience every time. We develop stunning websites that attract your audience and drive results, delivering a seamless user experience every time. At Arpatech, we offer cross-platform mobile app development with engaging user interfaces and robust features that have a lasting impact. As an SEO web development company, our mission is to utilize proven strategies and methods to improve your web app, drive organic traffic, and ensure your business stays ahead of the competition. We provide a bunch of options for payment gateway integration that empower your business. From seamless checkout experiences to strong fraud protection, we ensure you have complete peace of mind. We develop stunning websites that attract your audience and drive results, delivering a seamless user experience every time. We develop stunning websites that attract your audience and drive results, delivering a seamless user experience every time. We develop stunning websites that attract your audience and drive results, delivering a seamless user experience every time. It’s our responsibility to bring the consumer to you as a leading e-commerce conversion rate optimization agency. We analyze user behavior, implement strategic improvements, and optimize your web app with our expert CRO services. Our capable developers also add e-commerce API integration into your web app that ensures that your audience gets a connected and dynamic user experience that drives results. With AI web development, we combine algorithms, machine learning, and predictive analytics to deliver actionable intelligence, allowing you to optimize processes and leave your competitors in the dust. Boost your sales and streamline your inventory with professional e-commerce product catalog management. Let our professionals manage your web app and experience a steady increase in your online presence. We integrate comprehensive security measures that ensure your data and systems remain safe. With continuous monitoring, we also ensure you get secure web application development with uninterrupted operations. We design eye-catching mobile apps with engaging user interfaces and robust features that have an impact on the go. We utilize proven strategies and methods to improve your website, driving organic traffic and ensuring your business stays ahead in search engine rankings. We provide with a slew of payment gateway options that empower your business, from seamless checkout experiences to robust fraud protection, giving you a complete peace of mind. We analyze user behavior, implement strategic improvements, and unlock the full potential of your website with our expert Conversion Rate Optimization services. We are experts at integrating several systems, unlocking fresh opportunities for your company by facilitating real-time data exchange, improved functionality, and streamlined workflows. Our expert team combines cutting-edge algorithms, machine learning, and predictive analytics to deliver actionable intelligence, allowing you to optimize processes and gain a competitive edge in the digital landscape. Browse through our wide collection, explore detailed descriptions, and find the perfect items that meet your needs, all in one convenient and user-friendly platform that makes shopping an exciting experience. We offer comprehensive security measures that ensure your data, systems, and online presence are fortified against evolving cyber threats, ensuring uninterrupted operations. As an SEO web development company, our mission is to utilize proven strategies and methods to improve your website, drive organic traffic, and ensure your business stays ahead of the competition. It’s our responsibility to bring the consumer to you as a leading e-commerce conversion rate optimization agency. We analyze user behavior, implement strategic improvements, and optimize your website with our expert CRO services. Our capable developers also add e-commerce API integration into your websites that ensures that your audience gets a connected and dynamic user experience that drives results. Boost your sales and streamline your inventory with professional e-commerce product catalog management. Let our professionals manage your website and experience a steady increase in your online presence.

aws: Amazon Web Services - AWS

background: In the project, consultants work with client organizations to understand their business requirements and make optimal enterprise suite solution recommendations. This project aims to streamline the development process of the company’s portal. Currently, this approach makes extensive use of time-consuming Excel sheets and manual processes. With the help of a cutting-edge, efficient, and centralized system, the project seeks to replace this outdated approach.

blog: Arpatech Had to Achieve Right Scaling, High Availability, Reliability and Resilience With a Cost Balanced Solution Forrun application runs on LEMP stack (Linux, Nginx, MySQL, and PHP). Initially, the Arpatech team set- up Forrun’s application on some on-premise servers in at their own data center. Statistics report that cloud computing is at an all-time high and is expected to grow exponentially throughout the years. But growing demands mean utilizing expensive cloud tools, so cloud cost optimization is very much needed. The market value of the cloud computing market was valued at USD 587.7 billion in 2023, projected to grow to $676.29 billion by the end of 2024, and is estimated to expand to $2,291.59 billion by 2032. As these numbers show the demand for cloud operation, adhering to these requirements also means a heavy cloud bill. Cloud Cost Optimization In order to grow your business, you need to know which cost-effective cloud resources need to be allocated to which department. Cloud cost optimization ensures just that. With the right resources working on different workloads and applications, you are able to balance costs, performance, and security requirements that ensure that your cloud investments are working appropriately and optimally. Each workload in a cloud deployment is unique, with evolving requirements over time. To optimize cloud costs, it’s important to establish performance benchmarks for each workload, utilizing domain expertise and real-time operational data. The goal of optimization is to lower costs while maintaining the required performance levels. So, what best practices can we use to bring down the cost? Top 5 Cloud Cost Optimization Best Practices 1. Assess and Track Cloud Usage Cloud cost assessment is the cornerstone of successful cost management strategies. Start by carefully tracking and analyzing your cloud expenses. When you have enough insights into service usage, identify key cost drivers, and observe user behavior trends. This essential step enables you to uncover opportunities for cost optimization, such as unused resources or services. The ecommerce world have evolved extensively in the last few months. Platforms and structure are changing drastically and incorporating newer and better features for better user experience. From WordPress to Woo Commerce everything has changed. Another of such platform that has gone major change because of ecommerce developments happens to be Magento. For now, Magento, is considered one of the most updated and secured platforms mainly because of its regular updates. Surveys not put the ecommerce platform on a substantial 26% percent in terms of webstores reliance. This means that every one of four webstores are developed on Magento, a number that makes it an impact making force. There can be no denial of the fact that though with all the available security updates the ecommerce world still remains at a continuous threat, one that keeps on growing. Cyber criminals are always on the prowl to find any weakness in the code or any loophole left by the user through which they can wiggle in. The most common type of activities that are staged by these cyber criminals in order to gain access to a webstore include. ->Spamming ->Phishing ->Stealing user data Though Magento developers keep on rolling out security updates on regular basis there still remains a lot to achieve. There happen to be a lot of DIY Magento security best practices that website administrators should follow in order to keep their efforts protected. In the ecommerce store business it all comes down to Trust. These tips would help you in keeping your webstore protected and keeping the trust factor intact. 1) Go Latest Well there might be a version you felt comfortable with. Assuming that you the have the best extensions and security updates, users normally avoid moving onto newer versions all because of their convenience. Magento has been continuously getting updated with security patches. Hence, it is very important to stay informed about the latest Magento version. Once a stable release is out, test it and get it implemented. 2) Two Tier Verification As the famous saying goes, never put all your eggs in one basket. Either go for multiple basket or for multiple trips. Same is the case with Passwords. Either you need to keep on changing your passwords on regular basis with the most complex combinations or you opt for a two tier authentication. Two tier helps you discourage attacks more effectively. There are a few extensions that deliver two-factor authentications taking away your password worries and easing your Magento security risks. Here are two of the leading extensions that can help you impose 2 tier system. ->With Rublon only trusted devices are only allowed to access Magento backend by using a smartphone app. The app that uses a layer of stealth is available for all popular mobile OS platforms. ->Another of authentication application that is available is TWO-FACTOR Authentication. The extension allows you to implement complex authentication mechanisms which include limiting log-in attempts. 3) Custom Path Admin Panel Modifying your typical admin panel, a new modified version is made available. The typical admin panel that is accessed by going to my-site.com/admin, is very easy for hackers to get on to your admin log-in page and start guessing passwords. You can change your Magento admin path by following these steps: ->Locate /app/etc/local.xml ->Find <![CDATA[admin]]> ->Replace the term “admin” with your desired word or code 4) Encrypted Connection (SSL/HTTPS) Data flow always happens at a certain risk. Sending confidential information such as login details, across an encrypted connection exposes you to assailants, who can have this information and use it as an excess point for your website. To eliminate these issues, it is essential that you use a secure connection. The method for getting a secure HTTPS/SSL URL is very easy on Magento. You simply need to click on the tab “Use Secure URLs” in the system configuration menu. This is also one of the key elements in making your Magento website compliant with the PCI data security standard and in securing your online transactions. You can also get a SSL certification by StartSSL. This will alongside help you in becoming PCI compliant. 5) Secure FTP Connection One of the common path that hackers these days use to gain access to a website is by guessing or intercepting FTP passwords. You can avoid this by simply using secured passwords and SFTP ((Secured File Transfer Protocol) that uses a private key file for decryption or authenticating a user. 6) Have a Backup Plan You can have a NSA operated firewall and a team of world class experts protecting your webstore round the clock, yet you will always need a backup plan and cannot shy away from it. Your strict preventive measures for security can go all wasted if you are not using a proper backup. The process may well include hourly offsite backups and downloadable backups. In case of a website crash, a backup plan ensures the continuity of your services. Data loss can also be averted by storing backup files off-site or simply outsourcing the job to an online backup provider. It is always wise to check with your hosting provider if it has a backup strategy. 7) Directory Indexing Wandering in unchartered territory if you are not of being followed and don’t want to be exposed it is always advised to cover your trial. This is exactly what directory indexing helps you with. Hardening your Magento site, disabling your directory indexing helps you hide the obvious pathways via which the files of your domain are stored. This keeps away the cyber crooks from Magento-powered website’s core files. Be advised, this is not permanent solution and those who are interested can always access your files if they already know what the full path of your files is. 8) Having a Strong Magento Password You can secure yourself with Magento strong passwords. Always have special focused when you are deciding upon a password. Use the standard password techniques that involve mix of upper and lower case alphabets, numbers, and special characters like ?, >, etc. (Use a password management service if you have a problem of remembering a difficult one.) Additionally you can protect your Magento password by not using the same combination anywhere else, while keeping it exclusive and complex. 9) No Email Loopholes Though there is a great password recovering facility that has been incorporated in Magento, you yourself need to make sure that the e-mail address you use for Magento is not publicly known and it is protected with two-factor authentication. Email hacks can create a lot of trouble and your whole Magento store becomes vulnerable 10) Your Hosting Plan Matters If you are a startup and cannot afford to have a dedicated hosting or more secure virtual private servers, it is advised you go for shared hosting, a cheap mean for hosting a website. This may involve a certain compromise on your Magento security but measure can save you from complete disaster. If you find yourself having problems with shared hosting you can shift to dedicated one, this limits your resources and if there is a sudden spike in your traffic, the website has a good chance of going down. Managed cloud hosting has its own advantage. Robust security with frequent patches at server-level saves you big time. 11) Say No to MySQL Injection Complete reliance is never a good option. So, at a place where we are pitching you great Magento security features, ones that even involve support to outmaneuver any MySQL injection attacks with its newer versions and patches, it is not always an ideal approach to rely only on them. It is highly advised that additional web application firewalls such as NAXSI are even installed for customer safety. 12) Always Have Reviews No one is perfect, not even the best of Magento security experts. Where many of them may claim themselves to be good at coding only few understand the intricacies of Magento site security. You are therefore suggested to have yearly (even semiannual) reviews of your website for apparent loopholes and security shortcomings. If properly done, these reviews help in further hardening of your Magento security measures. 13) Listen From Others Magento has a thriving community of techies who are always there to help you in the time of need. You can search and post queries regarding any security issues of Magento or its features. The Magento Community members also release security reports on various versions of Magento, so look out for those as well. Conclusion There can be no doubt of the fact that Magento is a robust ecommerce development solution. Though these tips would help you come over a number of your issues there are complexities that require expert advice. It is always good to have consultancy from service providers that can help you bail out from such scenarios. Now that you are done with your e-commerce website and looking forward to evaluate yourself and the efficiency of your website we bring you some of the easy to use tools that you can apply on your website. There is no harm in running periodic tests on your website as this helps in gauging your site’s performance and your customers’ experience. The best part of these easy to use tools…..most of them are completely free. These tools are good when it comes to testing your customer behavior and helps you measure your website’s speed, browser compatibility, and search-engine-optimization performance. Usability Testing 1) Concept Feedback: Visit their online portal, submit your website, landing page or even the mockup. The tool helps you get expert feedback from design, usability, and strategy professionals. This comes absolutely free and you can also have feedback from the community, helping you improve your webstore. 2) Google Analytics Content Experiments: One of the most useful tool in the free kit, Experiments helps you understand how well different versions of your page work in getting your visitors to accomplish specific goals. You can easily test up to 5 unique variations of a page with separate URLs to check which one drives more conversions. The test comes free with a Google Analytics account. 3) Click Heat: An open source and free of charge heat map, Click Heat helps you measure number of clicks on an HTML page. The application also helps in showing hot and cold click zones. 4) Crazy Egg: Do you want to know where are your visitors clicking on your website? Crazy Egg features a heat map for clicks, a scroll map that displays how far down visitors scroll (helps you understand bounce rate), and a tool to distinguish clicks by referral sources. 5) Five Second Test: Here is a tip, if you are worried about your user experience instead of asking a designer ask the end user. See what users can recall about your design in just five seconds. Figure this not and you can ensure that your message is being communicated as effectively as possible. You can further expand by asking users to answer a certain set of questions about your website. Test like the Feedback Army can help you with this. 6) Silverback: A Mac-based usability testing tool, this allows you capture screen activity, make noteworthy moments within a session, allows you to record usability testing sessions, and set tasks. 7) UserTesting.com: You can now watch videos of visitors using your website, receive written answers and ask follow-up questions with the help of UserTesting.com. The on-demand usability testing helps you create your tests with one of the customizable templates. 8) Feng-GUI: The Feng-GUI provides you attention analysis. The test also simulates human vision during the first five seconds of exposure to your site visuals, and predicts what a real human would be most likely to look at. 9) Unbounce: What else does a website owner want more than visitors staying for long on his website. This A/B framework with a single click maneuver allows you to test your campaigns and learn about customers’ preference on different content, offers and ideas. 10) Optimizely: Now learn about your customer visitor segments and optimize your conversion funnel. Track engagement, clicks, conversions and sign-ups through multiple pages with A/B and multivariate testing. 11) Spur: This is the easiest and the most fun way to critique web designs. With a simple URL paste or an image upload you’ll be able to use seven different tools to help find what’s working and what isn’t. Performance Testing 1) Monitor.Us: Now with the help of this you can view your entire web and cloud system, all from your control panel. Have a look at your applications, databases, site availability, and response time – plus server and network health. 2) Google PageSpeed Insights: PageSpeed Insights analyzes the content of a web page, then generates suggestions to make that page faster. 3) Browsera: Learn all about your cross-browser layout differences and scripting errors on your site. The features help you crawl and test all of your pages. You can also collect JavaScript errors from each browser and have it analyzed. 4) BrowserStack: Now you can test your site on real time browsers. This also includes smartphone and tablet emulators, helping you test your website on a large range of devices. The test also uses a wide range of developer tools along with automated testing. 5) Perfecto Mobile: Worried about exclusive mobile handset experience? Now test your website on each handset and ensure optimal compatibility along with application and all additional services. Perfecto Mobile allows you to access real mobile handsets and tablets connected to live mobile networks spread in different geo-locations. 6) Browsershots: A free open-source online web application, Browsershots takes screenshots of your site in various operating systems. This helps in learning about websites’ browser compatibility in one place. 7) Cross Browser Testing: Cross Browser Testing makes you test your website in AJAX, HTML forms, JavaScript, and Flash in numerous browser and operating system. The application brings you instant results from dozens of browsers. 8) W3C MobileOK Checker: The checker initiates various tests on your web page to evaluate its mobile-friendliness. It assesses basic usability, efficiency, and interoperability, based on the WS3 Mobile Web Best Practices. 9) Xenu Link Sleuth: Imagine having broken links on your website that you are unaware of? This effects the credibility of you webstore and pushes your website down on Google ranking. The test is for such broken links. The verification is carried on links, images, frames, plug-ins, and more. It displays a continuously updated list of URLs that you can sort by different criteria. 10) SEOmoz: The mother of all tools, the SEOmoz brings you a collection of tools to test your webstore SEO health. With a crawl test, test for broken links, analyze keywords, and much more you are helped in accessibility issues and tracking rankings to ensure your optimal performance. 11) Link Research Tools: This is also a set of tools that can help you test your site. You can run a Link Detox to analyze all links on your website and get alerted about suspicious ones. Find links to dead pages on a domain, as well as the strongest sub-pages and sub-folders of a domain. We hope that the tools will come useful and will help you gauge your site performance and help build a better user experience and improved functionality. Keep visiting us for more on e-commerce management and learn all the latest that is there in the market. Till then Ciao guys. Web development trends have already changed this year and are admirably changing every single minute. For any specific needs, the users’ expectations are increasing and it is significant than ever to generate digital experiences that are fascinating and fun. Every year brings advancements in web development. Moreover, multiple platforms, languages and other elements that make up the web are constantly evolving. The changes in the world of web development are so frequent that we can't assume when and what is coming next. Yet, staying on top of developments proves to be a potential time sink in web development. Here, we will dive into the web development trends that took place in 2018 and still working miraculously and look forward to what we expect to see in 2019 and beyond. Single Page Applications (SPA) SPAs work inside a browser and due to that purpose, it doesn’t need the page to reload when in use. Some of the finest examples of SPAs are Facebook, Google Maps, Gmail, etc. They are the web pages that load all other content through JavaScript. They show natural behavior in the browser with no page reloads and extra waiting times. SPAs have the quality of separately calling the data and markup and directly render the pages in the browser. Accelerated Mobile Pages (AMP) The responsive web design approach has been in fashion since 2015. In fact, Google has initiated prioritizing sites that are mobile-friendly. AMPs are designed to strengthen the performance of web content and ads, as well as it improves website speed and user experience. AMP supported sites work seamlessly and are a yes for this year and next! According to a research which was conducted back in February 2017, AMPs accounted for 7% of all web traffic for USA’s top publishers. Push Notifications Push notifications can help you gain a huge audience meanwhile leveraging the benefits of online marketing. Push notifications prove to be the best solution for customers and visitors engagement. But you need to be careful that you do not overuse them. Let your customers know about special discounts, and company’s trending activities through push notifications. Static websites do not go anywhere It is true that dynamic websites are surpassing their static counterparts, but that doesn’t make static websites useless. There is an exponential growth in the number of websites in the web world, where only simple, secure and straightforward websites with fast load times are succeeding. Static websites fill the mentioned objectives and are cost-effective. However, we should not forget the fact that web design should be engaging and interesting for the customers. Progressive Web Apps (PWA) For leveraging the technological advancements, Progressive Web Apps (PWA) appear as a great concept that brings the best of mobile sites. They are based on Internet evolution and HTML5 adoption which grant the same functionality with seamless user experience to native apps as well. E-commerce tycoons ‘Flipkart’ introduced PWA and received 70% increased in conversion which is evident enough to show it’s worth. Chatbots Chatbots can handle customer support requirements more effectively. Apart from that, you can count on bots for assistance 24/7. There are various types of automated chat solutions available. You just need to pick and place the one that fulfills your requirements. The AI version chatbots can answer your question, navigate you to your desired destination and give worthy solutions. Also, they allow you to enable automated messages such as pre-defined answers, welcome messages and support URLs to make your support system automated. Response Animation Idle Load (RAIL) RAIL concept is thriving and expected to thrive more in 2019. It is associated with the fast load time and uninterrupted performance of the website. It breaks down UX into tap, scroll, drag actions which help in providing performance goals along with a structure necessary for better performance. Precisely, the main focus of RAIL is to provide a pleasant user experience. It is used to help web designers who follow the user-centric approach to ensure good user experience. Motion UI Marketers are always looking for something that persuades users to stay more on a page and be engaged. They are attracted to the GIFs, flashes and are impatient about the loading times. Motion UI includes animated charts, background animations, hovers and beautiful headers which can easily capture the attention of the users. It just require thorough research and proper implementation and your website will stand out of crowd. It can even differentiate the design of the minimalistic websites with an elegant and useful interface. It is a go-to in the year 2019. AR & VR Doubtlessly, AR & VR are futuristic technologies that can change the way we interact with a website. Some business giants like Samsung, Microsoft are already investing a huge amount in these technologies. With the help of VR, immersive experience of the virtual world can be offered to the users. Meanwhile, AR gives us the glance of the virtual world in the real world by enhancing the user experience. Both the technologies are expected to grow and go beyond 2019. IOT Statista survey reveals that there will be almost 31 billion connected devices in 2020. Due to this massive growth in the number of IOT devices, the web development process will eventually be impacted as enterprises tend to control these devices through a desktop or laptop. Moreover, to provide better services to the customers, integration of devices with the website is extremely important. Although there are only a hand full of websites that have IOT integration, but the concept will be a pivot in the future since the number of connected devices will increase gradually. Final Words Web development has experienced a massive modification over the years and expected to do more in the years to come. New trends have already arrived and there are more to follow with the evolution of technologies. Such modern trends/features can effortlessly be employed to engage as well as maintain customers when they get used to them. Thus, it is significant to search out for these trends and introduce them in routine web development methodology. They should be looked upon for modern innovations and creativity so as to stay ahead of the contest. We are living in the digital age where the technology is touching the skies. We all are surrounded by technologies. And if we talk about Artificial Intelligence, it has a huge impact on most of the portions of our life in the form of chat-bots, smart devices and of course self-driving cars! AI is a buzzword for quite a while now and is used in multiple fields, and Digital Marketing is no exception. Earlier, Using AI was considered a luxury and hence not everyone was integrating the technology. But now, we are witnessing an eminent shift in how marketers are approaching it to supercharge their marketing efforts. Since it does not only help in shaping consumer’s buying behavior but also assist them in making better purchase decisions. Artificial Intelligence is thought to be the future of computing. Keeping that in view, let's take a look at the top AI trends taking place in the world of digital marketing. AI is your new Content Writer Artificial Intelligence is making marketer’s life easier to the extent that it can produce content itself. Hard to believe right? But a machine can actually write and can produce content from scratch with human assistance. Not only does it help save a lot of time but also the money spent on the resources. Platforms like Articoolo and Quill are already providing this facility and making it easier to create content on the fly using AI. By using templates and fill-in-the-blanks to enter data and keywords, a well-drafted content is obtained giving the effect that a human wrote it. In fact, you might already have read the content which AI generated since BBC, New York Times and Forbes are already making use of this technology. Email Marketing with AI Makeover AI isn’t limited to content creation but the technology has reached the level that it can also assist marketers in grading their email marketing efforts. AI can help marketers in optimizing their campaigns which results in leveraging revenue potential. Where A/B testing takes time and contains a margin of error, AI generates a fully optimized experience for each customer based on preferences and user behaviors. Tools like Boomtrain, Phrasee, and Persado make use of AI for the purpose of personalized email marketing. It optimizes every piece of email marketing process from the optimal time of the day to send each lead in databases. With the innovation of email marketing solutions, week-long A/B testing is all set to say farewell. AI-Powered Content Curation Along with generating content, AI can also curate it. Curation allows you to engage visitors better on certain websites by recommending them the content relevant for them. AI-powered tools like Curata, Scoop.it, Quuu are there for this purpose. This technology makes personalized content recommendations that the user may find intriguing. Think of the last time you made a purchase on Amazon, you constantly see a recommendation like ‘you may also buy’ or remember the last time you watched Netflix and it recommended you the shows of your interest? The same method is used in blog content & personalizing site messaging more widely. It is also quite beneficial for subscription businesses where the more people use the service, the better algorithm is obtained. Therefore, resulting in better recommendations. Voice Enabled Search Assistants Voice search is another rising trend due to which it has become necessary for the marketers to optimize searches for natural long-tailed queries. Google revealed in its blog that 70% of the searches are received in natural and conversational language and do not include those typical keywords. For this purpose, Google’s Algorithm, RankBrain was created to get the most relevant results. This Machine Learning Algorithm interprets requested voice searches and with the help of AI presents the user with the best possible results. Amazon’s Echo, Apple’s Siri & Microsoft’s Cortana are the prime examples that are making use of this innovation. Any marketer who knows how to take benefit from voice searches will be able to boom their organic traffic considerably. Simulated ChatBots/Assistant Bots Chatbots are assistant bots that make automating responses to frequently asked questions by potential buyers easier by providing them with a way to find the product or service they are looking for. Let’s face it, every one of us hates to wait too long for a response from any brand or website we are on. Thence Chat-bots are there to rescue. AI integrated chat-bots have the ability to answer open questions. Through algorithms like Natural Language Processing (NLP), the most apt response to any query is provided. Other than that, they can serve 24/7 and respond to multiple queries from different customers simultaneously. A cherry on the top, they do not require a huge budget. In fact, through Facebook Bots, Wit.ai bot and QnA Maker Bots; you can train a bot and make them learn from continuous user interactions. Another great stuff that can be done with Chat-bots is determining the intentions of the user by building the knowledge-base or putting up the variety of phrases that a user might have the best chance of asking, therefore, making the bot proactive. Predictive Analysis shines brighter with AI As the name suggests, it predicts the probability of future prospects which are gained through statistical algorithms, data, and machine learning techniques. It allows marketers to extract information & predict purchase trends and user behavior patterns. With the help of these models, the probability of a specific prospect becoming a client can be predicted. Apart from this, some other aspects can also be predicted for instance which clients will make more than one purchase or the quoted price necessary to make a conversion. Apart from leveraging sales it also saves time and resources. Using Predictive analytics can also help in creating impactful marketing campaigns based on the buying behavior of customers. Wrap Up Artificial Intelligence is all set to save both time and money of the marketers. It helps facilitate better customer experience. We are all a part of this digital world where Marketing is a rapidly growing field. Hence, a marketer necessarily needs to power their marketing efforts with AI in order to be successful in his respective field. It is only a matter of a few months that Marketing space will be considered inoperative without the implementation of Artificial Intelligence into it. Magento has always been the center of attention in eCommerce sector. Many experts in Magento development and even newbies are concerned about the top Magento influencers/developers to follow in order to stay updated with latest eCommerce trends. In order to maintain the quality of work, Magento introduced Maganeto Master’s program which includes world’s leading Magento Makers, Movers and Mentors. Here are the details of Magento Masters-Makers that have contributed immensely to the Magento community. 1. ANTONIO CARBONI Meet Antonio, he is a certified Magento frontend developer. He Works at Cagliari in Sardinia and collaborates with different companies. He is the author of Magento Guida Al Design. His expertise level has contributed a lot to Magneto Community. He was also the speaker to Meet Magento Italy 2014. He is the Megento Master 2016 and also the founder and frontend Developer of Magenio. “Magento is currently one of the most popular and innovative CMS, dedicated to the world of electronic commerce. The platform is still poorly understood, why I wrote guides easy to understand, all in ITALIAN!” (Carbonio). 2. MIGUEL BALPARDA Meet Miguel Balparda, community Developer at Nexcess. He is energetic and constantly shares his knowledge with the community by responding to queries in Magento Stack Exchange. For years he has been traveling to different countries implementing some of the biggest of Magento projects. He has contributed a lot to Magento Communtiy and his famous presentation include Magento 2 Performance and Best Practices. He is Magento Master of 2016. 3. ALEXANDER GALTSOW Meet Alexander Galtsow, VP Communication and Partnerships at aheadWorks. He holds a degree in International Law but devoured in the eCommerce sector in 2012 and is engaged with Magento since then. He was selected as 2016 Magento Master based on his contributions through the extension Developers Network (EXTDN). His efforts in expanding the Magento marketplace and engaging companies in moving to magneto 2.0 are commendable. 4. JAMES LEE Meet James Lee, President of Aspiration Hosting Inc, has been engaged with Magento community since 2008. He has been sharing his knowledge in community through Magento forums. His contributions and efforts towards the community have made him 2016 Megento Master. “SpamExperts is a worthy investment for any company who has spam problems, as it really helps reduce the amount of spam emails without many false positives. Besides that, the SpamExperts team is generally very helpful throughout our deployment and day to day usage,” said James Lee, President of Aspiration Hosting Inc. 5. HIROKAZU NISHI Meet Hirokazu, CTO of Veriteworks Inc, a certified Magento Developer. In September 2007, Nishi got introduced to Magento and explored upon Japanese localization. Nishi’s efforts have contributed a great deal to Magento community. He organized Meet Magento Japan, the Meganto Japan User group and Advent Calendar Magento blogging project. He is 2016 Magento Master. 6. KRISTOF RINGLEFF Meet Kristof , the founder of Fooman, a Magento technology partner and extension provider. His company is trusted around the world. Kristof has been engaged with Magento since its first release and has contributed in making lots of free and commercial extension that aided administration and saved time and money. Kristof offers friendly and trusted advice on Magento. He was selected as 2016 Magento Master due to his tremendous contributions in community through Auckland Megento User Group, MAgento Stack Exchange and enabling extension company dialogue through the Extension Developers Network (EXTDN). 7. MUKESH TIWARI Meet Mukesh, senior software engineer at Brady Corporation in Banglore, started his career in 2012 and has been working with Magento since then. He usually spends his time on Magento Stack Exchange as well as StackOverflow. His has contributed on Magnento Forums on range of topics and has helped the Magento Community in India, helping him become Magento Master 2016. 8. KUBA ZWOLINSKI Meet Kubs, Founder & CEO of Snowdog, Silver Magento partner and certified Front End Developer. He is the father of three amazing kids’ White water, Kayker and Trail Runner. He is the organizer of annual international Meet Magento conference in Poland, an annual meet-up of Magento community and enthusiasts from all over the world. Kubs is translator and manager of Polish language pack in Magento 1 and 2. When it comes to work he is a dedicated professional. His contributions to Magneto have made him Magento Master of 2016. Conclusion The Magento community is enriched with people willing to help newbies and professionals. Thanks to Magento Masters program which revealed us the top Magento-Makers in Magento community. Magento Masters play a great role in building up a sustainable Mganeto community. The contribution from every single person counts so if I missed someone, feel free to share your opinion in comments below. Your opinion can aid my knowledge. More than 200,000 companies are using Magento e-Commerce platform for their businesses. Magento is one of the most powerful and cost efficient platform which empowers brands and businesses from B2C to B2B. Magento recently upgraded from version 1 to 2. As a hot topic of discussion there are few questions in the mind of users. 1) What should I know before the move? 2) When should I go for its upgrade? 3) Is it going to be trouble-free or troublesome? 1)What should I know before the move? If you want to stay updated with the latest e-Commerce trends, you don’t want your challengers and competitors to have an upper hand on you, so upgrading will be the right thing to do. Flexibility of Magento 2 Magento 2.x is enclosed with a new structure that takes flexibility and scalability to a whole new level. It offers a range of flexible tools that are well equipped to support your SEO, Catalogue management and advanced marketing tactics. With a perfect combination of high code coupling, developers can conveniently create features including checkout, CRM, CMS, sales and much more. You can enable or disable any component while keeping the code-base tidy. Scalability of Magento 2 The pages of Magento 2.x load even faster than before (<1.5 seconds per page) on first view and (<0.75 seconds per page) once it’s cached in the memory. The 2 page checkout process is relatively faster and easier to manage. Magento 2.x also has a scale to help you handle your busiest days. Magento 2.x supports incredibly high rate of 3.5 million page views and more than 250,000 orders per hour. You can handle relatively large amount of data for Customers, Order Management System and catalogue, without any hassle. Magento 2 Enhanced user experience The unique design and engaging experience gives it a competitive over its rest of the e-Commerce competitors. The default theme is responsive on every element and gives user a pleasure of experience. Magento 2.x enables personalization experiences, on site behavior or other data influence content, promotion and product recommendation, also with the enhanced search feature, the user can easily find the related products in no time. Fast Checkout The two step checkout process is fast. It allows user to speed up the checkout process thus performing their tasks efficiently. It also includes one click user profile creation without interrupting the current transaction. 2)When should I go for an upgrade? It is cost efficient and easier to upgrade core Magento Software and extensions with Magento 2.x. You will be provided all the necessary information about compatibility of upgrades. With the support of new standalone installer, installing Magento 2.x platform will be much faster. This tool will check for all the prerequisites before starting the installation. The upgrading process depends on your E-store condition and flexibility. If you are using any e-Commerce platform or older version of Magento that is now a stack of bugs, errors and bubbled with few modifications, scalability and flexibility, then the time has come for you to grab the latest update of Magento 2. 3)Is it going to be trouble-free or troublesome? Migrating from one platform to another always requires a team commitment. The tool is complete but it may require some work and expertise to make your store better than before. For now, Most of the themes and Plugins cannot be transferred so you will have to make your own customizations which might be hectic but eventually everyone has to move on. A world where all things are connected will bring endless opportunities and speed up most human activities. All thanks to the internet of things, almost any piece of equipment can be networked to provide data such as vibration, temperature, pressure and so on in real-time. 1. Human effort minimized IOT allows integration with all mobile devices. This allows technology to play its part and perform intricate tasks. 2. Hybrid apps will go mainstream The user on mobile attempts to connect with objects as well as people. These UI/UX are created to match the requirements of trending devices such as a smartwatch. Hybrid mobile apps facilitate this connectivity. Apps that include captivating user interface are possible from advance codes provided by hybrid platforms. 3. Centralized panel in households With homeowners now able to control numerous appliances through their smartphone, the management of household tasks is becoming more centralized. Ease of access is possible with mobile apps. 4. Adaptability of apps As smart objects become ever more commonplace, many more apps will be designed with widespread adaptability. Apps which are unable to offer connectivity with smart objects will become obsolete Developers are likely to invest far more time in ensuring that the apps are adaptable for IOT connectivity and could also update existing apps to enable them to communicate with smart things. 5. Shift in focus to the thing’s function App developers have primarily been concerned with the function of the app, but now the focus could shift to the function of things and now they will integrate with apps. Software engineers will need to have a solid understanding of the things’s underlying technology and then base the development of the app on that. They might also need to find new ways of connecting the app and the thing if approaches such as Bluetooth, wifi, and cellular do not work. 6. Greater focus on security With IOT creating an unprecedented amount of entry points for cybercriminals to exploit, app developers must emphasize security at each step of the process. The bonus is on app developers to hone or expand their cybersecurity knowledge and skills if required so that they are sufficiently updated on the demands of the current cybersecurity landscape. 7. Multi-tiered development process App development for IoT should ideally be divided into 5 tiers to maximize cohesion: device, gateway, data, analyst, CS and application. Many app developers won’t have experience of integrating so many tiers for the purpose of building apps, so this could necessitate the development of a new language to ensure fluid cohesion between each of the 5 tiers. 8. Focus on specialist IOT app development App developers will be familiar with working across multiple platforms (e.g. Android, iOS) but as Iot is a unified platform company could begin to place greater value in hiring developers who specialize in the IOT niche. If IOT grows at provided rates, companies are likely to need a team of specialist Iot app developers to avoid lagging behind competitors. We have, in the last few years, witnessed a number of technological innovations across different fields that have revolutionized the world. Mobile app development is one of them. Now, several mobile apps provide users the ability to play games, meander unknown territory with navigation capabilities, get products and services, and even daily fitness goals. This has catapulted the mobile application development to an altogether different level, leading to the creation of cutting-edge apps to cater to the users’ growing expectations. Virtual reality, the revolutionary technology that has practically transformed the way we live and work, is taking mobile app development to a level that one would never have imagined before. The technology has a profoundly transformative effect in such diverse fields as gaming, real estate, retail stores, and more, providing users with realistic experience for entertainment, testing products, and other important tasks. VR has also changed the way businesses the world over are conducted, streamlining communication between business owners and their potential customers. Take iOS, the operating system of the iPhone, for example. Virtual reality applications are now supported by recent versions of iOS, leading to a keen interest in virtual technology among iPhone users. Now, while developing iOS apps, the businesses seek to search immersive VR experience that can be provided to their iPhone customers. Sharp focus on VR programs Unlike previously, a number of iOS developers are now moving away from standard mobile apps and focusing on virtual reality programs instead. Similar to 3D type, these applications provide the user the opportunity to experience a virtual world with the device putting the person in the middle of all the action in games, documentaries, and even films. Since the idea of being in a different universe is quite fascinating, it obviates the need to experience the events in reality. A person, for example, is capable of traveling to the farthest part of the world while being in the comfort of their work or home. Therefore, while hiring an iOS developer, make sure that they are well-conversant of the recent advancements and applications made in virtual reality. Amazing Virtual Experience People like to use their cellphones to carry out online activities like shopping and booking. And these activities are made easier by the use of various VR-enabled applications. For example, in shopping, the VR technology provides the customers with an application for great e-commerce stores, where shoppers can get a 3-D view of the product they want to purchase. The customers get all the three dimensions of the product to ensure they are satisfied with the product. And it also saves the time of visiting the stores physically. What’s more, the storekeepers benefit from low rates of product returns since the customers buy products they are satisfied with, which helps save on the overall cost incurred by the businesses. People can also take advantage of virtual reality apps that are created for various industries including hotels, real estate, and tourism. These applications augment the virtual experience of users for they can swiftly do the right transactions, while allowing businesses to offer exceptional customer service. Additionally, they can address customers’ concerns in real time regardless of their location. Mobility One factor that has played a key role in the remarkable success of mobile apps is mobility. Taking the experience a notch higher, VR apps have allowed users to enjoy mobility to the extent that was not hitherto possible, enabling them to use a virtual reality app to explore many opportunities while they are in one place. For example, you can use a VR app to take your users on a virtual tour even when you are in different geographical zones. Improved Mode of Communication Previously, applications would offer phone-based communication between businesses and their app users. However, now mobile app development companies are using virtual reality to enhance the mode of customer communication in mobile applications. Businesses can now use real-time video to make direct contact with clients, which helps the former improve their conversions. Revolutionizing the industry Pilots training in flight simulators or even teenage drivers have long been taking advantage of applications based on virtual reality. In fact, the role of VR is also growing in other fields like education and healthcare. Video gaming is the very first industry that adopted VR applications, and now with the remarkable experience provided by VR, it is giving a tough challenge to standard mobile applications. The applications of these programs are immensely significant in medical schools as they allow the students to practice surgery and other operations on a VR app rather than on a corpse. Engineering students can now build virtual homes and bridges towards the completion of their degree. Even prospective teachers can hone their teaching skills in a virtual classroom, opening an incredible market for any iPhone development company. In short, virtual reality has changed the way of living, ushering in a new era of development in the tech industry. The capability of VR apps to create an immersive and appealing experience has led marketing mavens to find and explore the opportunities to reach out to the people. It goes without saying that virtual reality mobile apps are transforming the world and the way people communicate, shop, do business, work, and carry out other important tasks. A number of industries—entertainment, fashion, aerospace, manufacturing and a lot more—have taken advantage of this truly amazing technology. It may be safely assumed that mobile apps are not going to die soon, but they have to keep up with the cutting-edge technology of virtual reality. The companies involved in iPhone application development would do well to make room for virtual reality to provide users with the most immersive and engaging experience. According to experts, virtual reality has a promising future: it is projected that by 2020, the entire virtual reality market size could be worth $34 billion. With such exciting figures and an average user’s growing demand for these VR apps, moving away from basic mobile apps to VR-based apps has become more important than ever. Virtual reality and its impact on business in this day and age are undeniable. Immersive technology, the term used to denote augmented reality (AR) and virtual reality (VR), has finally become mainstream after years of improvements and development. The popularity of these devices and virtual content has skyrocketed especially after technology behemoths such as Google, Samsung, HTC, and more, launched their own versions of VR devices. Although the gaming industry has chiefly benefited from this technology, virtual reality has a wider range of applications across different industries. While uses of virtual reality in education and medicine also exist, it has its own significance in the world of business. Today, a large number of businesses are trying to make their operations more productive and effective by using more innovative ways to incorporate virtual reality into their routine business systems. Examples of virtual reality in business abound. VR has already created quite a stir in a number of sectors such as healthcare, travel, business, and aviation, so the question is: How can the technology have an impact on businesses? Or how can businesses benefit from virtual reality? You will find the answer to this critical question in the following blog. Better Visualization and Designing of the Product Virtual reality will be used to visualize and design the product like never before. Although it was not possible earlier, thanks to virtual reality companies will be able to precisely design and analyze the product for its functionality. What’s more, the product can also be modified several times before it’s sent to production. VR will also allow the company’s managers and the product’s end users to give some positive feedback on the product being developed, making it an excellent way to quickly detect design problems at an initial stage, avoiding post-production snags. Reduced Business Travel & Productive Business Meetings With a short history of virtual reality, technology appears to have a viable and promising future. A few years ago, having dispersed teams were thought to be unproductive on account of the costs associated with business travel. No longer. Now, cutting-edge technologies and infrastructure have considerably reduced this gap, with virtual reality further making it easier for businesses to conduct virtual meetings involving teams spread across the globe. E-Commerce Will Flourish In addition to gaming and movie industry sectors, e-commerce will be one field in which companies can greatly benefit from virtual reality. There’s, however, a need to identify some unchartered regions of the e-commerce industry in order to reap maximum benefits from them. And virtual reality will make it possible as it provides an amazing way in which people can shop on ecommerce websites. Helping Businesses Stay Ahead of the Competition Virtual reality can help businesses swiftly and confidentially create a virtual store, which is a lot easier than setting up a store physically. While the speed of marketing can be enhanced using VR, the store can be planned in complete confidentiality, helping companies stay ahead of the competition. Interviewing Candidates Will be Easier The new applications of virtual reality will make taking interviews of candidates who have applied for a job much easier for the human resources department in the future. The HR executives will be able to interview candidates from different places face-to-face in a virtual boardroom, where they will also be able to watch their responses and body language. VR Will Have a Huge Effect on the Future of Retail Augmented reality in business reality will help companies invest in extensive research and development to ascertain the customers’ various cultural, eating, and social trends as well as obtaining precise industry forecasts. Virtual reality will, therefore, have a huge impact on the future of retail, as it helps companies realize consumer behaviors and trends, as well as product consumption patterns in diverse situations. Training Will Greatly Benefit from VR Virtual reality business model is something to look forward to. The use of virtual reality for professional business trainers will be wide-ranging in the coming decade. The discrete nature of VR enables the participants to look around in the room and interact with those who are online. Besides the recorded training sessions, trainers will also be able to conduct live training sessions and seminars, making the usual training bouts more interactive. Transforming the World of Media That virtual reality can transform the world of media is pretty obvious. Now, businesses can advertise in ways never imagined before; VR-powered advertisements are proof. Evidently, this is one-way brands can differentiate their promotional campaigns from others and convey a clear message of technological supremacy in the market. Interactive messaging is another critical component of revolutionary brands’ marketing campaigns. VR Will Help Clearly Visualize the Structures to be Designed VR will prove to be a godsend to professionals like engineers and architects who are into architectural planning, as it will allow them to clearly envisage the structures they are designing. This will save a great deal of time and money, which would otherwise be spent in making smaller models or 2-D renders. Therefore, companies will be able to attain enormous growth through VR by using immersive 3-D technology to design structures. Real Estate Industry Will Also Reap Benefits The real estate industry will be one of the biggest beneficiaries of virtual reality as it will enable the real estate agent or owner to provide a virtual tour of the property to their clients and help them envisage the architectural plan better. VR will allow the customer to get a 3-D view of the house they are planning to buy or rent. The Future Virtual reality and its impact on business cannot be held into question. The importance of VR as future technology cannot be denied. Augmented reality technology has also seen an upsurge in a large couple of years. By the end of this year, the VR industry is likely to cross $1 billion mark and will become a staggering $150 billion market by the year 2020, according to reports. Approximately 80pc of the leading technology companies have invested in virtual reality and the number is likely to grow in the future. While the gaming industry has been the most popular domain, VR is no longer confined to this industry only. We will see an enormous surge in the usage of VR by various other industries, such as real estate, business, marketing, and more. At the outset, a number of businesses showed skepticism considering the high cost of the VR devices, but now with a variety of VR headsets available at affordable rates, companies will soon enter the virtual world easily. With a sharp rise in the number of people using virtual reality, there will be numerous opportunities for companies to incorporate the technology into their everyday operations and reap the benefits. In this male-dominated business world, coming up with the right business idea can be a very daunting task even for the most motivated women entrepreneurs. While ideas do flow freely for up-and-coming entrepreneurs, they barely get off the ground. Others come up with some vague and wooly ideas that are never executed. Creating a business plan and feasibility study is key to deciding on the right business idea, requiring some introspection. Ideas for starting a business from home are a dime a dozen. If you want to become self-employed but are unsure about what type of business you want to start, here are a few questions you should be able to answer. What do you want or need to get out of the business? What do you like doing? What are your strengths? What would you like to learn to do? Find Out What You Want or Need to Get Out of the Business It goes without saying that business ideas for housewives do exist today. Small- scale business ideas for housewives may also play a role in boosting a country’s economy. If you are looking for a second income, consider representing another company to sell their products or services. The benefit of this exercise is that you will not have to write a business plan or invest heavily to get started, and can work at your own convenience. And if you are a stay-at-home mother willing to give proper time to your children, then choose a business that will allow you to work around their schedules. Working a 9-5 job from while raising children is next to impossible, so plan your schedule accordingly. In addition, starting a nonprofit is a fairly good—and rewarding—idea if you have the desire to change the world. And if you wish to contribute something to society and making money is not your priority, then try volunteering with various organizations to see what you like to do most. Volunteering gives you personal satisfaction and is an excellent way to learn how nonprofits work, and the contacts and skills you acquire will be instrumental in your decision to set up your own business later on. Remember, only a sound idea is the road to success whether you want to be your own boss and become financially independent. A number of technology behemoths today were actually founded based on sheer ideas. Get Business Ideas from Finding What You Like to Do Starting your own business is not a bed of roses; it requires a great deal of time, energy, and sacrifice—so choose something you are passionate about. If you choose something that does not interest you, or worse, something you hate to do, you will find it tougher to succeed. Ask yourself these questions: How do you spend your free time? Do you have a hobby that could be turned into a business? Do you like to do volunteer work? If you could have any job you wanted, what would it be? Determine Your Talents & Strengths While sometimes it’s difficult to know your strengths, your talents might be obvious to you if you are a musician, artist, or photographer. If you are unsure what your hidden skills and talents are, ask family and friends who know you. Even if you do not have a specific skill like marketing or bookkeeping, you still have skills that may be saleable if you can recognize them. That said, however, there are still many areas where you can grow as a female entrepreneur. History is full of small business success stories. Blogging as a Powerful Tool Whether you are an individual or a business entrepreneur, blogging is a field you can use to your greater advantage. Blogging is a powerful tool for everybody, whether an individual or an entrepreneur, as people love reading something creative and informative. Women can earn a lot of money by writing anything that interests people. For women facing financial issues in their lives must follow in the footsteps of famous woman novelist J.K. Rowling who made it big in the field of blogging by dint of her remarkable writing skills. Blogging is, without any doubt, an amazing home-based business idea for women who want to have a social and economic impact on society. Business ideas for housewives are aplenty and women have a chance to improve their living standards. Budding female entrepreneurs looking to boost their businesses can also take advantage of a myriad of professional web development services available online. Mobile-friendly, responsive, and feature-rich websites offered by some professional website development services can make a lasting impact on your business. In addition to webs designing, women entrepreneurs can also benefit from secure and reliable web hosting services, adding value to their nascent business ventures and cementing their standing in the competitive industry. Social Media Consulting In today’s digital age, the role of social media in society building cannot be overlooked. It’s an era where we all are connected to millions of people through the internet and social media. Therefore, entrepreneurs, irrespective of the industry, must realize the significance of social media marketing. Women business owners can start their social media consulting and marketing agency to help people grow their business over social media, which is one of the trending businesses for home-based women entrepreneurs. Women in most countries also boast of inspirational business success stories. All one needs is some market knowledge and relevant experience. Social media consulting is one of the most rewarding and economically viable internet business ideas for ambitious women entrepreneurs. Online Clothing Store That the fashion designing industry has seen a phenomenal boom in the last few years goes without saying. People’s tastes in design and fashion have grown and they are willing to pay higher for clothing and attire that meets their expectations. With the rising demand, there is a need for more women to begin working as fashion designers. You, too, can set up your own online boutique store by building a presence on social platforms. Event Planning Business Given a huge requirement of event managers and planners in corporate sectors, women have an amazing opportunity to prove their mettle in the event management field. This startup idea is relatively easy to work on, and it is practical and effective. Aspiring women entrepreneurs can certainly make it as their careers to pursue their goals. Restaurant Business Are you an experienced mother with some outstanding culinary skills? If yes, then you can easily excel in any business related to food and cooking if you apply yourself and do the right things from day one. So, take the bold step of investing in the restaurant business and earn huge profits. And your income can multiply if, following the current market trend, you start offering home delivery service as well. How to market your business online? That’s a question every business owner has in mind these days. Digital marketing has gained traction among businesses of all types around the world. It has become a vital tool to promote a business’s products and services on a large scale, allowing companies to foster a more personal relationship with their consumers all over the world. Digital marketing enables businesses to deliver content to their customers through personalized and cost-effective communication. The many benefits of digital marketing allow you to develop a professional digital marketing campaign that can draw more customers to your product, resulting in the remarkable growth of your business. While challenges of digital marketing are aplenty, astute business owners should be capable of finding solutions to those challenges. Here are the top 10 advantages of digital marketing for your business. 1. Convenient and Quick Service One of the biggest advantages of digital marketing is convenient and quick service. Thanks to the internet, reaching markets and accessing consumers anywhere in the world have become much easier than ever. Online placement of orders has reduced the cost of transportation, making buying goods from around the globe easy and hassle-free. What’s more, you can download digital products from the internet with the click of a mouse. 2. Low Operating Cost Low-cost business operation is one of the major advantages of digital marketing. Compared to traditional modes of advertisement—such as newspapers, television, and radio—, it’s cheaper to advertise through digital marketing. For example, you can send the same information in an email rather than a mail-out, saving you on printing, paper, and postage. What’s more, the internet allows you to contact your customers more in comparison to how you would contact them conventionally. 3. Demographic Targeting Marketing your products and services online gives you the ability to target audience based on demography. This allows you to focus your efforts on the audience that you truly want to offer your products or services. With demographic targeting, you can better target your marketing efforts on specific demographic regions. Demographic targeting also allows you to target specific customers you think are likely to buy your product or hire your services. Whenever someone visits your website and fills in a form, it gives you an idea of who your customers really are and lets you learn important information about them including age and interests. 4. Marketing Products Globally Digital marketing allows you to globally market your products and services. If you aggressively do the SEO for several months, you can easily acquire millions of viewers and reach a huge number of people from around the world. Unlike traditional marketing, digital marketing allows you to move beyond your geographical location and offer your products and services to customers the world over. Regardless of where your target audiences are, you can get in touch with them 24/7 and from any country in the world. If your audience comprises more than your local market, taking advantage of global marketing offers you a great advantage. 5. Ability to Multitask Handling millions of customers simultaneously is one of the major benefits of digital marketing. A number of transactions can easily take place at one time if a website’s infrastructure is efficient. Nevertheless, even with millions of transactions occurring, your website is able to provide satisfactory service to every customer who buys anything online. The remarkable flexibility of digital marketing is a key feature business can take advantage of to provide their consumers with the best shopping experience. 6. All Day --- 24/7 Marketing Digital marketing, unlike its conventional counterpart, cuts down cost and runs around the clock—which means that your marketing campaigns run for 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Also, there is no regional or international time difference for you which may affect the availability of your online offers, making it easier for you to see your marketing campaign whenever you open their computer and connect to the internet. What’s more, customers can look for your product at their convenience. 7. Automated, Tech-Oriented Marketing There’s no doubt that digital marketing is much easier than traditional marketing thanks to one-mouse-click automation. Unlike offline marketing, you don’t have to delegate various tasks to the best people in digital marketing. Rather, taking advantage of a more tech-savvy, automated method can do wonders, giving you a chance to turn every aspect of your business’s operations into a fully automated system. Automating your marketing campaign can help you do something more important with your time. 8. Diversified Marketing and Advertising Diversification plays a key role in your marketing and advertising campaigns when targeting your audience. Diversification means that one can use a number of tactics and strategies in order to reach one’s prospects—and with digital marketing, diversification becomes much easier. It is also possible for one to run a variety of marketing methods simultaneously to effectively execute one’s marketing campaign. 9. Optimizing Campaign through Easy Tweaking In marketing and advertising, something must be tweaked in order to optimize your campaigns. And digital marketing, compared to its digital counterpart, is far easier to tweak. If the campaign needs modification, digital marketing makes it possible without having to face the hassle of downtime, service interruption, or even stopping the whole system. Which means that you can easily change the appearance of your website by changing a few lines in the CSS that link to the web page. 10. Quick Transaction Service Compared to traditional marketing, in digital marketing executing transactions online is quick and easy. All you need is a digital payment service which obviates the need for a cash to go between the marketer and the customer to buy and sell goods. This is all possible thanks to payment processing solutions implemented by third-party payment processing firms such as PayPal. 11. Enduring Sales Relationships In conventional marketing, sales agents often hand their business cards or brochures to their customers, which are often misplaced or lost by the latter. The only time the seller remembers about the card is if they intend to visit the customer again. Eventually, most customers tend to forget the seller, as well as the card, so this marketing method does not work to persuade buyers to return. In digital marketing, however, marketers can easily collect email addresses of their prospects and buyers, which they can use in creating an enduring relationship with the customer. The marketer can use this email address to provide customers with important details such as information about the acquired product, special discounts and introducing new products. Social media also comes in handy for the marketer to interact consistently with customers. Digital marketing benefits businesses of all sizes With a huge number of benefits of digital marketing, there’s little doubt that digital marketing benefits businesses of all sizes and types. It hardly needs pointing out that digital marketing tactics are the most cost-effective way to market your business online. And it’s also true that an effectively targeted digital marketing campaign can reach the right customers. Digital marketing also has a much lower cost than traditional marketing methods. To develop a digital marketing plan, companies should take advantage of the right technological tools on hand. And digital marketing advantages include increasing brand loyalty and driving online sales. So, the name of the game in today’s tech-savvy world is measuring your online marketing properly and effectively. In addition to all the perceived advantages of digital marketing, perhaps the biggest benefit is it's much lower cost than traditional marketing methods. Digital marketing has gained huge popularity among businesses of all types around the world. It has become an important tool to promote a business’s products and services, allowing organizations, large and small, to foster a more personal relationship with their consumers globally. Digital marketing enables companies to deliver content to their customers through personalized and cost-effective communication. If you think Digital Marketing is not worth it, you’re wrong! In a world where multi-channel digital marketing is growing by a whopping 140%, traditional advertising has lost its vigor. Last year, ad spending on Internet outdid advertising on television and cable networks. So, what prompted this upsurge in the use of Digital Marketing? It’s the consumers themselves. According to research, a phenomenal 72% of consumers are already connecting with brands through their numerous digital marketing channels and activities. Nonetheless, despite the fact that both consumers and entrepreneurs are moving towards digital media, many small businesses have yet to pick up the momentum. As opposed to what many small business owners believe, digital marketing is not as complex as it appears. Many businesses, even the large ones, have experienced and enjoyed the fruits of digital marketing, and it’s worth investing in this new and innovative domain. Still not convinced? Read these 10 big advantages of digital marketing and change your perception. 1. It Connects You with Your Consumers on the Internet Gone are the days when people would sift through piles of phone directories or flip through pages of newspapers to find information about a product or service. Today, a staggering 80% of consumers use the Internet to find information on a broad range of products and services. 2. It Generates Higher Conversion Rates Digital marketing helps you reach out to targeted audiences, generate leads and achieve as much as a 24% surge in conversion rates. 3. It Saves You Money According to a study, a phenomenal 40% of small business owners are reported to have benefited from digital marketing. 4. It Enables Real-Time Customer Service According to a report from eMarketer, your business can hugely benefit from this real-time response mechanism offered by digital marketing. 5. It Connects You with the Mobile Consumer With mobile marketing generating up to 34% of all organic traffic, digital marketing makes it easy for you to tap this enormous market. Mobile technology, according to eMarketer, is also greatly impacting the purchasing behavior of these consumers. 6. It Helps Earn Higher Revenues Digital marketing is the best tool to drive sales. You can create social media campaigns, refine your audience based on the interest, age group, and country. You can also use Google Adwords, bid on potential keywords, and land your audience on your Amazon landing page to drive sales. 7. It Offers Higher ROI from Your Campaigns A HubSpot report said that digital marketing can help businesses produce better Cost-Per-Lead (CPL) than traditional marketing or even telemarketing. 7. It Offers Higher ROI from Your Campaigns A HubSpot report said that digital marketing can help businesses produce better Cost-Per-Lead (CPL) than traditional marketing or even telemarketing. 8. It Keeps You on Par with Competitors While it may be draining to keep up with the everchanging trends within your respective industry, doing so is the only way to remain on par with competitors. Digital marketing helps many brands and businesses beef up on their marketing campaigns, using numerous channels available including display, PPC, mobile and social media. 9. It Helps You Compete with Large Organizations Not only does digital marketing keep you on a par with your competitors, it can also help you compete directly with big brands and large organizations. 10. It Prepares You for a global online ecosystem According to a report, by 2020, a projected 26 billion gadgets including smartphones, tablets, home appliances, shoes, eyeglasses, and other accessories will be interconnected in a global online ecosystem, which speaks volumes of the significance of digital marketing. According to data, PHP is one of the most sought-after programming languages across the world. Choosing from the many PHP web development services can be a daunting task especially when the market is awash with free and paid IDEs. However, PHP IDE is the principal tool that you require to get started with PHP programming. While it’s quite possible to go ahead with PHP programming tools in a central text editor, such as notepad, it’s better to start with feature-rich and complete PHP IDE such as NetBeans. PHPStorm, VIM, Cloud9, Zend Studio, and Atom are other sets of tools designed for professional web development. The best PHP IDE is feature-rich, supported by PHP programming. To choose from the many PHP IDE development tools that perfectly fit your needs, you need to invest and lot of time and effort. Here are some of the PHP development tools that will make a huge impact in 2019—and beyond. 1. PhpStorm Many PHP web application development services rely on this important tool. Equipped with a set of features that help in quick web development, PHPStorm is the best IDE for PHP developer. PHPStorm, the best PHP coding software, works well with important frameworks such as Symfony, Zend Framework, Yii, CakePHP and Laravel. It even supports the main Content Management Systems (CMS) like Drupal, Magento, and WordPress. No web development project is complete without front-end technologies. And that’s where PHPStorm comes in handy, enabling live editing of front-end technologies including CSS, Sass, HTML5, CoffeeScript, TypeScript, JavaScript, Stylus, Less and more. And with regard to the best tools for PHP developers, the tool provides access and integration with robust version control systems. The popularity of PHPstorm can be realized from the fact that technology behemoths like Yahoo, Expedia, Cisco, Wikipedia, and Salesforce have bought PHPStorm IDE licenses. Which IDE do I need? One of the best PHP IDEs development tools, PhpStorm is meant to cater all your PHP related needs and wants, whether it is full JavaScript, CSS or HTML support. WebStorm is designed for all those explicit JavaScript developers. Usually, Node.JS is not very appreciated by PHP developers; however, related plugins can easily be installed for free in PhpStorm. How often new versions are going to be released? WebStorm and PhpStorm updates are mostly available twice in a year although, minor updates or bug fixes are often issued periodically if necessary. Will PhpStorm assist XXXXX Framework/Technology? (PHP/JavaScript/anything else) Since it is cited that IDEA platform assists language (be it JS, PHP, Ruby, Java etc.) it conveys the idea that IDE features will work with all the valid codes in that specific language and even throughout. Nevertheless, some advanced features will still require a particular kind of handling with specific framework. Such libraries that need fine features are stated in road-map, other than that everything else is expected to work as it is. Therefore, try to develop your project in PhpStorm, one of the best PHP coding software. You can use the issue tracker to find any search requests, vote for it and even track the whole process. IntelliJ Features: IDEA vs PhpStorm/WebStorm IntelliJ IDEA stays JetBrains' products and IntelliJ IDEA 9+, presents full PHP help together with all other points of PhpStorm through bundled or downloadable plugins. The only thing lacking is the simplified task setup. Some other languages that support (i.e. Python, Ruby) You can attempt on trying other IntelliJ products like RubyMine, PyCharm or IntelliJ IDEA + Python/Ruby plugin, out of the scope for PhpStorm/WebStorm. 2. Eclipse PDT Although it doesn’t cost much, Eclipse PDT is a highly preferred PHP development tool. A large number of developers are working on all kinds of plugins and other user-friendly features Eclipse has to offer. While some people consider Eclipse to be slightly sluggish, the vital laptop configuration is of high-quality to run Eclipse quickly enough. Some of the main features include syntax highlighting, code formatting, code assist, refactoring, code navigation, code templates, PHP debugging, syntax validation and eclipse ecosystem. Features Syntax Prominence Syntax Validation Content Assistance Code Navigation PHP Debugging (Zend Debugger / Xdebug) PHP Profiling (Zend Debugger / Xdebug) PHPUnit Code Formatter Refactoring Code Templates Remote Projects Power of Eclipse Ecosystem 3. NetBeans An integrated development environment (IDE) for Java, NetBeans allows applications to be developed from a set of modular software components called modules. NetBeans runs on Windows, macOS, Linux and Solaris and has extensions for other languages like PHP, C, C++, HTML5, and JavaScript. The free version of NetBeans was originally prepared in 2010 and was an open source by Sun Microsystems, which was later taken over by Oracle. Unlike previously, when NetBeans was known only for development in Java, the current tool is lightweight, much faster and highly supportive of PHP. FAQ's Can I find a platform-independent NetBeans installer? Yes, you can. You can use it if your firewall does not let you download executable files, or if you seek to install the IDE on a different Java-capable platform, like a sub-notebook. I am unable to download NetBeans. Is the NetBeans installer available on CD-ROM/DVD too? The NetBeans DVD Starter Kit is now offered by NetBeans project as a free ISO image. The Starter Kit includes all bundles (the NetBeans IDE for Java SE/EE/ME, Profiler, PHP, C/C++), the JDK, application servers, and documentation. Available for all major operating systems, the Starter Kit will run on Windows, Linux, Mac OS and Solaris, and is available in English and many other international languages. When I download the NetBeans installer for Windows, the file lacks the "exe" extension and won't run. How can I run the installer? When using Internet Explorer to download the NetBeans installer for Windows, the download might be blocked and the ".exe" might be removed from the file name. If you complete the download, the file might not be executable on Windows. Workaround: At the start of the download process, add ".exe" to the file name, then proceed with saving it in your local file system. Example: Change "netbeans-6.0.1-ml-windows" to "netbeans-6.0.1-ml-windows.exe". Does the NetBeans installer run on Windows 98SE / Windows ME? NetBeans installer does not run properly on Windows 98 SE and Windows ME. As workaround you can distribution and build the IDE yourself. Keep in mind that NetBeans IDE is unsupportive of two operating systems, so you are likely to face other problems too. Can it be termed as one of the best PHP IDEs development tools? It sure can. Not only is this a highly effective PHP IDEs development tool, it is also widely used as an excellent PHP coding software. 4. Sublime Text 3 Sublime Text, a proprietary cross-platform source code editor with a Python application programming interface (API), natively supports many programming languages and markup languages. One of the most reliable PHP development tools for mac, this allows users to add functions with plugins, typically community-built and maintained under free-software licenses. While the market is flush with a lot of PHP packages, some important packages include package control, Sublime PHP companion, Simple PHPUnit, PHPCS, CodIntel, and PHPDoc. Key Features "Goto Anything," quick navigation to files, symbols, or lines "Command palette" uses adaptive matching for quick keyboard invocation of arbitrary commands Simultaneous editing: simultaneously make the same interactive changes to multiple selected areas Python-based plugin API Project-specific preferences Widespread customizability via JSON settings files, including project-specific and platform-specific settings Cross-platform (Windows, macOS, and Linux) and Supportive Plugins for cross-platform Compatible with many language grammars from TextMate 5. NuSphere PhpED NuSphere is a leading company that develops the best tools of PHP products to enhance web development experience. PhpED, a proprietary integrated development environment for PHP, is one of the company’s cutting-edge products. It supports the most recent release of PHP Editor that supports PHP 7 and many other new and old PHP frameworks including Laravel, Yii and Symfony to name a few. It is capable of running unit tests for mutually local and remote projects. In short, NuSphere PhpED is a remarkable web development tool that comes full with support for JavaScript debugging, CSS pre-processing with LESS pre-processor. 6. Zend Studio Zend Studio, which has s times faster performance than any other PHP tool, allows you to code faster and debug more easily. Designed to create high-quality PHP apps, this next-generation PHP IDE enhances developers’ productivity. It has powerful debugging capabilities with Xdebug, Zend Debugger, and Z-Ray integration, while it can deploy PHP applications on any server including cloud support for Amazon AWS and Microsoft Azure. Today’s it’s one of the most highly regarded PHP coding software. Debugging and PHP profiler Zend Studio offers highly sought-after integration with debug tools like Xdebug, Zend Debugger, and Z-Ray. The numerous debugging options help you get more cutting-edge debugging capabilities. And for quicker progress, Zend Studio automatically spots and authenticates your PHP binary or local server settings. If you’re using Zend Server, then the combination of Zend Server, Z-Ray, and Zend Studio considerably enhances debugging. Z-Ray allows you to recognize concealed bugs and application performance problems that no debugger could ever catch. Open a debugging or profiling session directly from Z-Ray and use the tight integration with Zend Studio to rectify the code and performance issues. 7. Atom Built by GitHub, Atom is the latest text editor. With tons of plugins and packages to expand its functionality, Atom is an accurate cross-platform alternative with support for Windows, Red Hat Linux, OS X, Debian Linux and Fedora 22+. Installing Atom is quite simple and it can work across all leading operating systems such as Linux, Windows, and macOS. FAQ's What platforms does Atom run on? Prebuilt versions of Atom are available for OS X 10.9 or later, Windows 7 or later, RedHat Linux, and Ubuntu Linux. Is Atom open source? Yes. Atom is MIT licensed and the source is easily available from the atom/atom storehouse. How can I contribute to Atom? You can contribute by creating a package that adds something great to Atom! Why does Atom collect usage data? In the same way that total usage information is vital when developing a web application, it's just as significant for desktop applications. 8. Komodo Developed in 2000, Komodo IDE is one of the best PHP MySQL development and functional tools. Most of the functionality of Komodo is distinctive from the Python interpreter. Using Mozilla and Scintilla as its foundation for their rich functionality, Komodo features and support similar languages. Thanks to its many extensions and other features like swift bookmarking, smart language detection, and document object model viewer, Komodo has proved to be a hugely successful PHP tool. 9. Aptana Studio Built by Aptana Inc in the year 2014, Aptana Studio is one of the best open source PHP development tools. It is simple to download from the web and accessible to all absolutely free. The tool comes with Syntax Error Annotations and has a built-in PHP server. In addition, it supports DOM and CSS, as well as code formatting and auto indexing. 10. Cloud 9 Along with JavaScript, Python, and PHP, Cloud9 comes pre-packaged with important tools for a number of programming languages, obviating the need for installing files for your development machine to start new projects. Since your Cloud9 IDE is cloud-based, you can carry out your projects from your home, office, or anywhere if you have the internet connectivity. The platform offers a perfect experience for developing serverless applications allowing you to directly define resources, debug, and switch amid local and remote execution of serverless applications. Cloud9 helps you swiftly share your development environment with your team while allowing you to pair program and monitor every input on a real-time basis. Also, it allows you to code with just a browser while building serverless applications effortlessly Laravel web development services have taken the PHP community by storm. Laravel is the renaissance of the most recognized server-side language which PHP developers are experiencing. There are almost 1,14,640+ live Laravel websites out there for a reason. Laravel provides PHP with a clean and classy web development framework while at the same time relieves developers from complicated coding. Laravel helps develop wonderful apps while using expressive yet simple syntax. Consequently, development becomes creative instead of being painful. Laravel development comes with some extraordinary features. It is adaptable and easy to use. It offers multiple modules meeting your specific needs. Laravel- PHP framework simplifies common tasks used in different web projects. It is used by some giant industries for their business growth. Brief Orientation on Why We Need Laravel Framework Framework such as Laravel provides us with an expressive and elegant syntax. Laravel makes development a creative, enjoyable and truly fulfilling experience. Laravel is such a handy framework that it helps you ease your routine tasks, used in most web projects such as routing, authentication, sessions, and caching. Apart from being accessible, it also provides powerful tools needed for massive, robust applications. An expressive migration system, brilliant reversal of control container, and highly integrated unit testing support will give you the tools you need to build any application you are assigned with. Here we will outline some of the unique features of the Laravel framework, which will justify why it is gaining so much recognition. 1. Template Tool Laravel has a pre-installed powerful and lightweight template engine, helping developers in making some extraordinary layouts with intensive content seeding. Laravel template offers various solid widgets with robust CSS and JS coding. Its inbuilt templates are there to accumulate plain PHP and cached it to give the great performance. All the templates are designed with different sections along with simple layouts which make it easier to develop a simple yet functional layout. 2. Authentication and Authorization Some of the best Laravel development companies assure secure authentication and authorization. Any web application owner needs to be assured of having authentic and authorized users accessing the secured resources. Implementation of authorization is quite simple as almost everything is configured out-of-the-box. Laravel also facilitates a basic method that sorts out the authorization logic and control access which are well-organized and very easy to manage. 3. Inbuilt Libraries Laravel is the framework that facilitates you at best by being the only provider having dynamic pre-installed libraries. These libraries include Object Oriented libraries that cannot be found in other PHP frameworks. Besides offering hassle-free implementation, it also contains various features like watchword reset, checking dynamic clients, CSRF (Cross-site Request Forgery) insurance, and encryption. Additionally, Laravel has a helper functionality, helping you encourage and achieve various basic undertakings i.e.firing events, generating views, sending HTTP responses to the server etc. This is a significant feature that is found exclusively in Laravel. 4. URL Generations Laravel also assist in generating URLs which becomes very helpful for building links in your templates. All Laravel corridors are effectively laden by the framework which is delineated in the app/Http/routes.php file. When a user clicks or types a link, they want to see the desired content, such as an article, a product description, etc. which is not possible without the assistance of URL routing. As the web application will never understand what the user wants to see and may instead display a blank page or an error page. Laravel framework provides a very plain route description strategy by simply accepting a URI and a Closure. 5. Integration with Mail Services Mail service integration is another benefit that Laravel provides. It is used to send notifications to users’ to notify them about the various events that take place. It has become inconceivable nowadays, to have a modern online application that lacks simple email notification to new customers portraying their promising web registration. It also provides drivers for Mailgun, SMTP, Mandrill, SparkPost, PHP’s “mail” function and Amazon SES which allows an application to get started speedily. 6. MVC Architecture Support While you google what Laravel is, Wikipedia's definition states that it follows a Model - View - Controller architecture. And this is the factor which makes Laravel the best framework to use for your web application development. It enhances the performance, ensures clarity and allows for better documentation. It makes it easier to change the template and the underlying codes. In short, it’s built-in functionalities ease the overall process. 7. Technical Vulnerabilities Fixture Laravel is a secure platform that takes care of the security within its framework. It safeguards web application against the most serious security risks such as; SQL injection, cross-site request forgery, cross-site scripting, etc. It can inform you first-hand if the codebase is guarded, and that many people have vetted the code. Therefore, any laravel development company is confident and will be sure to assure you of the framework's security. 8. Artisan Tool for Command Line Generally, a developer needs to interact with the Laravel framework using a command line that develops and manages the Laravel project environment. Laravel provides an integrated command - line tool called Artisan. This tool helps to create skeleton code and database architecture as well as their migrations. Database management becomes easier as a result. It enables the generation of basic MVC files and the formation of custom commands. Artisan tool allows us to perform almost all of those repetitive and tedious programming tasks that most developers avoid manually. Moreover, we can also conduct Unit tests for our application. 9. Fine Unit Testing In Laravel’s unit testing, every module of your web application is tested before the site goes live so that no part of your website remains broken. Fine unit testing ensures that there are no bugs or exceptions in your web application which makes a high-performance and bug-free and ultimately hassle- free application for your end users. It is another exception of Laravel framework. 10. Multi-Lingual App Creator Apart from all the other benefits that Laravel's development services provide, creation of multi-lingual apps is another one. It is indeed the right option for businesses looking to expand their reach across different countries with different languages. Laravel framework helps create your web application easily and quickly for different languages. Laravel is Popular For a Number of Reasons Developers can begin building a Laravel application in just a few minutes. It is always a huge time-saver. A laravel web development company facilitates ideal tools and pleasant ideas that help you build a robust website which is faster and easy to manage. The reasons for Laravel’s popularity mentioned here are just the tip of an ice berg. There are multiple other reasons that makes Laravel the best framework. Laravel is popular because: Tasks that typically take hours and hundreds of lines of code to write can be performed with pre-built functions within few minutes with Laravel framework. For instance, cache (to enhance performance), authentication (social login integration) etc. are already instituted in Laravel's new installation which makes the development easier, faster and more efficient! Writing unit tests is a time - consuming task, but the effort spent is definitely worthwhile because software testing provides product or service quality information to customers. Laravel testing is, fortunately, already integrated into the framework! Developers don't have to spend too much time analyzing best practices in developing and maintaining web applications and taking decisions on how to properly implement everything because the documentation in Laravel framework is detailed. You can find various courses, code snippets, tutorials on Laravel. Unlike other frameworks, Laravel framework is pleasing and welcoming. Conclusion Laravel's creator, Taylor Otwell says, “Laravel is the strongest contended in the PHP ecosystem simply because it includes the features needed to build modern web applications”. And certainly, we believe he’s right as the Laravel PHP framework is among the figureheads in the recent global tech stack. Laravel is one of the renowned features of PHP frameworks which provides valuable attributes with its extensive online, strong community support. When developing the web application, it includes the creative logic of a developer along with strategies for handling or bug fixing. Moreover, it is scalable and it helps you make timely and cost-effective software delivery meeting all your business needs. It is the high time that you should immediately opt for a laravel development company USA to get the most professional laravel development services USA. William Boudle has vast years of experience in ecommerce industry and he is Certified Magento Solution Specialist. Currently he is working in JSR Direct as Director of Ecommerce. In this interview William shares his thoughts about “Magento issues”. He also shares his suggestions for peoples who want to become Magento certified and recommends useful Magento platform for learning about Magento and to get involve in Magento community. William said “Don’t give up! Magento, at first can seem daunting, but once things start to click, you’ll wonder why people use any other eCommerce system.” William also shares his personal life with some excited moment with our readers. Find more about William in this interview :) Arpatech: William, currently you work at JSR Direct as Director of Ecommerce, since 2011. How did you start your career with Magento? What challenges did you face in the initial years of your career? Share your job role at JSR Direct with our readers. William: Director of Ecommerce translates to “I wear many hats” from frontend & backend to marketing, SEO and everything in between. I primarily deal with musicians & entertainers as an industry, but their target demographics can sometimes be worlds apart. I work with clients ranging from Weird Al, The Zombies & Tiesto; to Margaret Cho, Andrea Bocelli and numerous broadway shows including Hamilton the Musical & CATS. Our primary niche however is heavy metal, with products that often need to be kept isolated from our more reserved clients’ catalogs. When I started at JSR, they were using a SaaS eCommerce platform, but had a laundry list of requirements and ideals they wanted out of an eCommerce site. My prior experience had been with osCommerce, but by 2011, Magento was the clear winner in highly customizable eCommerce. There were so many challenges moving to Magento that there were a few times I wondered what I had gotten myself into. We had dozens of microsites and both B2B and B2C sites to convert. As mentioned above our clients have their own separate target demographics. Then there was an ERP integration, which always present their own challenges. We also aren’t always told when a client is going to promote their store, so we always need to be prepared for a spike in traffic. Through the challenges though, I’ve become a huge fan of Magento and am still in awe of what an extremely powerful framework it is. Arpatech: William you are a certified Magento solution specialist. What are the 3 most viable tips for newbies who want to involve themselves in Magento? Could you recommend a useful platform for Magento training? What is the reason behind connecting yourself with Magento? William: Read and answer on magento.stackexchange.com. Sort by votes and you’ll see answers to some of the most popular questions you’ll face when starting Magento. - The magento community is very tight knit, but also very welcoming. People who may appear to be Magento gurus are accessible via twitter and reddit and put a lot of their own time into providing free and helpful information. - Don’t give up. Magento, at first can seem daunting, but once things start to click, you’ll wonder why people use any other eCommerce system. There are a ton of great resource for Magento training. Definitely check out Alan Storm, his blog and modules are an excellent place to start. Another great one I’ve found is MageStudyGuide.com. It goes over the fundamentals necessary to know how Magento is working “under the hood”. Arpatech: Nowadays, Magento is a very popular ecommerce platform. What are some useful front-end features in Magento 1X for developers? William: As with everything Magento, it’s how customizable it is. Particularly with custom attributes and layout xml. We needed branded ecommerce microsites for musicians, along with links to, and feeds from, their social media accounts. This was achieved with custom attributes that could link products and categories to clients, and custom layout updates to stylize their individual stores. Most people who begin Magento front-end development quickly find that it is a little overwhelming, and that it has its own approach to MVC. Finding which file information on your product page is loading from can seem daunting. Template hints were a huge help to me when trying to grasp Magento’s fall back structure. I especially like the Aoe_templateHints module (https://github.com/AOEpeople/Aoe_TemplateHints) as it looks cleaner and shows more information, like cache status of blocks. Arpatech: William, as a Director of Ecommerce what are the most common questions you face from your customers? Magento is a very popular ecommerce platform. How do you see Magento growth in the ecommerce industry? What are the main problems Magento Merchants face? William: The most common request I get is for more or better reporting. While Magento has some pretty decent reporting functionality built in, working with a large number of clients means lots of requests for different sales metrics. Kalen Jordan’s Custom Reports are a lifesaver for this. I’ve been able to make dozens of custom reports for clients with Google Charts and all. I am a little worried that Magento 2’s complexity will drive developers to use other platforms. Similarly, the problem I think most merchants face is Magento’s steep learning curve. You are almost required to have a developer on staff if you want to run a small to mid-size Magento site and there’s so much going on behind the scenes that there are features even long term Magento developer’s haven’t used. Arpatech: What’s your advice for merchants who run their store on Magento and want to increase their store’s sale? Does SEO play a significant role in store sales? What is the best method of store marketing? William: SEO is huge. So many eCommerce sites fall short in this area and it’s another one where I think Magento shines if you take advantage of its features. Sitemaps, SEF & canonical URL. It’s easy to build landing pages and blocks with the CMS. Another good SEO technique worth mentioning is Rich Snippets, though it requires an extension or some simple site modifications. They can really help your products stand out in Google with reviews, pricing, stock availability and more. I think is also worth considering other popular platforms such as Amazon & Ebay, especially if you have a unique product. Both of those can be integrated into Magento using M2E so you can continue to use Magento as a hub for online orders and product management. Arpatech: Magento 2 is on the market. How will Magento 2 impact the ecommerce industry? What’s your advice for SEOs who want to improve their ecommerce store ranking? In your opinion, how can merchants improve their store with Magento 2? William: Things I’m excited about in Magento 2 is the use of HTML5, LESS CSS and the switch from Prototype.js to jQuery. I still think it will take some time for those with large sums of money and time invested in Magento 1 to make the switch. I think Magento 2 will be an improvement for many merchants because they will be easier to update, and easier to manage for store admins. Updating has historically been an area of concern for Magento, but Magento 2 and composer should make the task far less cumbersome. Also a full page caching Arpatech: What are some useful features in Magento 2.x for developers? What are your thoughts about the front-end of Magento 2? As a Magento Solution Specialist what tools would you recommend to speed up Magento websites? William: The built in CLI tools will be super helpful. I also think the new file structure is a little easier to grasp as the files aren’t as spread out across the filesystem. I really like the new Luma theme and think the tile design is a step in the right direction towards a cleaner, mobile-first eCommerce experience. I’m still just in the “playing around” phase with Magento 2, but can say that I miss having a local.xml file a little. I also wish they would have chosen Sass over LESS for CSS, as I think it’s come out as the clear leader of the two. Hopefully they will make the change sooner rather than later, while Magento 2 is still in its infancy. There are several great options for full page caching, some free, others are premium. I would definitely recommend taking a look at Varnish. Probably one of the most important requirements to get good performance from your site is to use a good hosting provider. Arpatech: Magento has a vast community and really helpful members. How do you connect yourself in the community? Which social network do you prefer to connect yourself with the community? William: The Magento Community is very active on Twitter, LinkedIn and even pretty active on Reddit. I’ve also had some good interactions on Quora. Truth told, there are some great Magento Community members available on almost all the major social media sites. “Magento” is one of the first phrases I search when checking out a new social network. Arpatech: Magento Imagine, Meet Magento, Magento hackathon, Mage Titan are the best platforms for people who want to connect with the Magento Community. What’s your advice for amateur developers who want to involve themselves in the Magento Community? Have you been a part of any Meet Magento or Magento Conference? Or, in the future do you plan to attend Meet Magento or any other Magento related event? William: I’ve only had the opportunity to connect online so far. Where I currently live, there are not many Magento Meetups and the few there are just can’t seem to take off. I plan on moving to the Orlando area this year, and if there isn’t one there, then I plan on starting one! I’ve also already told my company I’m attending Magento Imagine 2017. Arpatech: William, let’s put Magento aside and talk about your personal interests :). I follow you on Twitter, and I think you love to spend time with your family. What’s your favorite place and how many trips have you taken so far? How do you spend your free time? Share some interesting moment from your personal life with our readers. :) William: My family are big Disney geeks. Now that Disney owns Star Wars and Marvel, I think they get all my extra money, lol. I love how Disney blends engineering, design, and tells a story to create a user experience. Gee, it’s almost like web design! I think balance in work life is important, especially to those of us in tech. I will be moving to the Orlando area soon, because there is so much to do there for families. Life is short, and I want to blur the line between vacation and daily life. It’s like that Confucius quote, “Choose a job you love and you will never have to work a day in your life”. That’s what I’m striving for, with Disney World on the weekends, lol. Arpatech: There are always some individuals who stand out in the crowd. Name some people that inspired and influenced you in the Magento world? William: Magento definitely has some stand out people and thriving community. In fact Sherrie Rohde, Magento Community Manager, put together the “Magento Masters” to highlight some of the best magenticians and it’s most helpful. I will say that anyone on that list, particularly the Mentors, are worth following. Another helpful way to find the Magento influencers is to follow everyone on the Magento Stack Exchange Reputation list. (http://magento.stackexchange.com/users?tab=Reputation&filter=all) Phil “Winkle” Jackson: One half of the MageTalk.com podcast and a guy with some of the best answers on Magento StackExchange. He and Kalen Jordan are just great to listen to when you’re want to stay inspired without feeling like you’re listening to a work podcast. Alan Storm: If you climbed to the top of Magento Mountain, you might find Alan Storm, almost everyone in the Magento community has probably found an answer in one of his posts and he has probably helped launch entire Magento careers. Marius Strajeru: If you sort by reputation on Magento StackExchange, Marius takes the gold. His answers to some of the most popular questions are well thought out. Oh yeah, and his Ultimate Module Creator, which is free, is just amazing if you’re looking to get into Magento Module development… Ben Marks: He is currently a Magento Community Manager and is active and helpful on Twitter and Reddit. He and Sherry Rohde are the glue that binds the Magento community to Magento corporate. He also deserves honorable mention for being the teacher in the Fundamentals of Magento Development course. Fabrizio Branca: I actually have an IFTTT alert to let me know whenever AOE adds a new extension to GitHub, because they are just that awesome. William Boudle has vast years of experience in ecommerce industry and he is Certified Magento Solution Specialist. Currently he is working in JSR Direct as Director of Ecommerce. In this interview William shares his thoughts about “Magento issues”. He also shares his suggestions for peoples who want to become Magento certified and recommends useful Magento platform for learning about Magento and to get involve in Magento community. William said “Don’t give up! Magento, at first can seem daunting, but once things start to click, you’ll wonder why people use any other eCommerce system.” William also shares his personal life with some excited moment with our readers. Find more about William in this interview :) Arpatech: William, currently you work at JSR Direct as Director of Ecommerce, since 2011. How did you start your career with Magento? What challenges did you face in the initial years of your career? Share your job role at JSR Direct with our readers. William: Director of Ecommerce translates to “I wear many hats” from frontend & backend to marketing, SEO and everything in between. I primarily deal with musicians & entertainers as an industry, but their target demographics can sometimes be worlds apart. I work with clients ranging from Weird Al, The Zombies & Tiesto; to Margaret Cho, Andrea Bocelli and numerous broadway shows including Hamilton the Musical & CATS. Our primary niche however is heavy metal, with products that often need to be kept isolated from our more reserved clients’ catalogs. When I started at JSR, they were using a SaaS eCommerce platform, but had a laundry list of requirements and ideals they wanted out of an eCommerce site. My prior experience had been with osCommerce, but by 2011, Magento was the clear winner in highly customizable eCommerce. There were so many challenges moving to Magento that there were a few times I wondered what I had gotten myself into. We had dozens of microsites and both B2B and B2C sites to convert. As mentioned above our clients have their own separate target demographics. Then there was an ERP integration, which always present their own challenges. We also aren’t always told when a client is going to promote their store, so we always need to be prepared for a spike in traffic. Through the challenges though, I’ve become a huge fan of Magento and am still in awe of what an extremely powerful framework it is. Arpatech: William you are a certified Magento solution specialist. What are the 3 most viable tips for newbies who want to involve themselves in Magento? Could you recommend a useful platform for Magento training? What is the reason behind connecting yourself with Magento? William: Read and answer on magento.stackexchange.com. Sort by votes and you’ll see answers to some of the most popular questions you’ll face when starting Magento. - The magento community is very tight knit, but also very welcoming. People who may appear to be Magento gurus are accessible via twitter and reddit and put a lot of their own time into providing free and helpful information. - Don’t give up. Magento, at first can seem daunting, but once things start to click, you’ll wonder why people use any other eCommerce system. There are a ton of great resource for Magento training. Definitely check out Alan Storm, his blog and modules are an excellent place to start. Another great one I’ve found is MageStudyGuide.com. It goes over the fundamentals necessary to know how Magento is working “under the hood”. Arpatech: Nowadays, Magento is a very popular ecommerce platform. What are some useful front-end features in Magento 1X for developers? William: As with everything Magento, it’s how customizable it is. Particularly with custom attributes and layout xml. We needed branded ecommerce microsites for musicians, along with links to, and feeds from, their social media accounts. This was achieved with custom attributes that could link products and categories to clients, and custom layout updates to stylize their individual stores. Most people who begin Magento front-end development quickly find that it is a little overwhelming, and that it has its own approach to MVC. Finding which file information on your product page is loading from can seem daunting. Template hints were a huge help to me when trying to grasp Magento’s fall back structure. I especially like the Aoe_templateHints module (https://github.com/AOEpeople/Aoe_TemplateHints) as it looks cleaner and shows more information, like cache status of blocks. Arpatech: William, as a Director of Ecommerce what are the most common questions you face from your customers? Magento is a very popular ecommerce platform. How do you see Magento growth in the ecommerce industry? What are the main problems Magento Merchants face? William: The most common request I get is for more or better reporting. While Magento has some pretty decent reporting functionality built in, working with a large number of clients means lots of requests for different sales metrics. Kalen Jordan’s Custom Reports are a lifesaver for this. I’ve been able to make dozens of custom reports for clients with Google Charts and all. I am a little worried that Magento 2’s complexity will drive developers to use other platforms. Similarly, the problem I think most merchants face is Magento’s steep learning curve. You are almost required to have a developer on staff if you want to run a small to mid-size Magento site and there’s so much going on behind the scenes that there are features even long term Magento developer’s haven’t used. Arpatech: What’s your advice for merchants who run their store on Magento and want to increase their store’s sale? Does SEO play a significant role in store sales? What is the best method of store marketing? William: SEO is huge. So many eCommerce sites fall short in this area and it’s another one where I think Magento shines if you take advantage of its features. Sitemaps, SEF & canonical URL. It’s easy to build landing pages and blocks with the CMS. Another good SEO technique worth mentioning is Rich Snippets, though it requires an extension or some simple site modifications. They can really help your products stand out in Google with reviews, pricing, stock availability and more. I think is also worth considering other popular platforms such as Amazon & Ebay, especially if you have a unique product. Both of those can be integrated into Magento using M2E so you can continue to use Magento as a hub for online orders and product management. Arpatech: Magento 2 is on the market. How will Magento 2 impact the ecommerce industry? What’s your advice for SEOs who want to improve their ecommerce store ranking? In your opinion, how can merchants improve their store with Magento 2? William: Things I’m excited about in Magento 2 is the use of HTML5, LESS CSS and the switch from Prototype.js to jQuery. I still think it will take some time for those with large sums of money and time invested in Magento 1 to make the switch. I think Magento 2 will be an improvement for many merchants because they will be easier to update, and easier to manage for store admins. Updating has historically been an area of concern for Magento, but Magento 2 and composer should make the task far less cumbersome. Also a full page caching Arpatech: What are some useful features in Magento 2.x for developers? What are your thoughts about the front-end of Magento 2? As a Magento Solution Specialist what tools would you recommend to speed up Magento websites? William: The built in CLI tools will be super helpful. I also think the new file structure is a little easier to grasp as the files aren’t as spread out across the filesystem. I really like the new Luma theme and think the tile design is a step in the right direction towards a cleaner, mobile-first eCommerce experience. I’m still just in the “playing around” phase with Magento 2, but can say that I miss having a local.xml file a little. I also wish they would have chosen Sass over LESS for CSS, as I think it’s come out as the clear leader of the two. Hopefully they will make the change sooner rather than later, while Magento 2 is still in its infancy. There are several great options for full page caching, some free, others are premium. I would definitely recommend taking a look at Varnish. Probably one of the most important requirements to get good performance from your site is to use a good hosting provider. Arpatech: Magento has a vast community and really helpful members. How do you connect yourself in the community? Which social network do you prefer to connect yourself with the community? William: The Magento Community is very active on Twitter, LinkedIn and even pretty active on Reddit. I’ve also had some good interactions on Quora. Truth told, there are some great Magento Community members available on almost all the major social media sites. “Magento” is one of the first phrases I search when checking out a new social network. Arpatech: Magento Imagine, Meet Magento, Magento hackathon, Mage Titan are the best platforms for people who want to connect with the Magento Community. What’s your advice for amateur developers who want to involve themselves in the Magento Community? Have you been a part of any Meet Magento or Magento Conference? Or, in the future do you plan to attend Meet Magento or any other Magento related event? William: I’ve only had the opportunity to connect online so far. Where I currently live, there are not many Magento Meetups and the few there are just can’t seem to take off. I plan on moving to the Orlando area this year, and if there isn’t one there, then I plan on starting one! I’ve also already told my company I’m attending Magento Imagine 2017. Arpatech: William, let’s put Magento aside and talk about your personal interests :). I follow you on Twitter, and I think you love to spend time with your family. What’s your favorite place and how many trips have you taken so far? How do you spend your free time? Share some interesting moment from your personal life with our readers. :) William: My family are big Disney geeks. Now that Disney owns Star Wars and Marvel, I think they get all my extra money, lol. I love how Disney blends engineering, design, and tells a story to create a user experience. Gee, it’s almost like web design! I think balance in work life is important, especially to those of us in tech. I will be moving to the Orlando area soon, because there is so much to do there for families. Life is short, and I want to blur the line between vacation and daily life. It’s like that Confucius quote, “Choose a job you love and you will never have to work a day in your life”. That’s what I’m striving for, with Disney World on the weekends, lol. Arpatech: There are always some individuals who stand out in the crowd. Name some people that inspired and influenced you in the Magento world? William: Magento definitely has some stand out people and thriving community. In fact Sherrie Rohde, Magento Community Manager, put together the “Magento Masters” to highlight some of the best magenticians and it’s most helpful. I will say that anyone on that list, particularly the Mentors, are worth following. Another helpful way to find the Magento influencers is to follow everyone on the Magento Stack Exchange Reputation list. (http://magento.stackexchange.com/users?tab=Reputation&filter=all) Phil “Winkle” Jackson: One half of the MageTalk.com podcast and a guy with some of the best answers on Magento StackExchange. He and Kalen Jordan are just great to listen to when you’re want to stay inspired without feeling like you’re listening to a work podcast. Alan Storm: If you climbed to the top of Magento Mountain, you might find Alan Storm, almost everyone in the Magento community has probably found an answer in one of his posts and he has probably helped launch entire Magento careers. Marius Strajeru: If you sort by reputation on Magento StackExchange, Marius takes the gold. His answers to some of the most popular questions are well thought out. Oh yeah, and his Ultimate Module Creator, which is free, is just amazing if you’re looking to get into Magento Module development… Ben Marks: He is currently a Magento Community Manager and is active and helpful on Twitter and Reddit. He and Sherry Rohde are the glue that binds the Magento community to Magento corporate. He also deserves honorable mention for being the teacher in the Fundamentals of Magento Development course. Fabrizio Branca: I actually have an IFTTT alert to let me know whenever AOE adds a new extension to GitHub, because they are just that awesome. The world of Web development is a rapidly changing domain. 2016 brought some of the hottest trends which you should be aware of if you are part of the web development community. You should follow these trends while designing and developing your website to maintain your position in the web market throughout this year. With new frameworks, evolving technologies and new layouts everything plays a critical role in attracting customers to your web page. Let’s look at some of the hottest trends…. 1) IOT (Internet of Things) Much of the development in the app world is the result of IOT and it continued to grow enormously from 2015. It is expected to continue this growth till 2019 as it has played a big role in faster data transfer rate. IOT enables this process by linking smart objects while it is expected that with time a lot of advanced solutions will be innovated for the purpose of communicating with gadgets. 2) Motion User Interface Last year’s emerging trend was Motion User Interface and it is expected to stay for long. The SASS library is one of the three main foundations for Apps by Zurb and it is used for creating animations quickly. Through its help it becomes a less complicated process to give a transitional smooth look to the apps. 3) Advanced Responsive Design The web market is changing due to all the new technologically advanced platforms which will be using it. 2016 trends are considered to set the stage for next few years. There are several advanced devices, cohesive wearable gadgets, screens and advanced designed frameworks which are in huge demand and are considered to show a growing trend. 4) Upsurge in Real-time The Real-time analytics are widely being used by mobile and desktop apps for activities such as live streaming etc. So the whole year is anticipated to witness an increased in its usage. 5) Navigation design for Full-screen Usually for the sites which are browsed for mobile devices, the developers and designers prefer to use full-screen navigations. The increased use of this trend is observed as it enables users to jump to full-screen resolutions in an auxiliary natural way. 6) Adds blockers on the sites A huge amount of money the website owners are losing due to advertisement blocking plugins. Many techniques have been developed which enable websites owners to avoid these growing effects. These new techniques happen to reduce the effects of advertisement blocking. 7) Containers Usage To run, create and test an app swiftly Docker, a container service is used by the developers. A lot of advanced changes are making containers go huge this year. Docker is believed to evolve and gain more features and security. 8) Ultimate Browser Power Throughout the past few years some major developments have been observed in the trend of things which the user can do with the browser. JavaScript is acknowledged as the browser’s de-facto language, making the browser more powerful than ever before. It stands out as the most powerful language for the year 2016. 9) IDEs These days more people are turning towards cloud based versions of IDEs instead of using the traditional development environment. The key factors of IDE include fast accessibility and flexibility which is provided full-time even if you are not using it. 10) Enhanced Security As users add different apps to their mobile devices the higher the risk becomes of the device getting prone to security breaches. The increase in the efforts to make apps extra secured and more safe is going to be a vivid trend of 2016. 11) The standard UX Bots Popular apps in the web market like Facebook, Wechat etc. are using Bots and making the life of their users easier by providing easy use of their apps. 12) Apps Foundation A single page app framework which is constructed through AngularJs and the flexbox grid framework. This framework empowers developers to develop quick yet easy and responsive web app creation. This year a lot of companies are believed to use it. Final Thought To make your website more tech savvy you can use these trends and increase the quality of your webpage. Many websites today are implementing such strategies to provide a competitive edge in the every growing web market. Marius by person is a very down to earth guy while he has a very vast professional experience and knowledge in the Magento field. He happens to be very active at Magento forums and all the Magento Communities. His expertise is in Magento Module Development. He is considered as this era’s dominant Magento Developer and ranked number 1 on Magento Stackexchange. He has made important contributions to the development of Magento Platform, Magento Core Development, and Magento Extension Development. Read our exclusive interview with this World Class Magento Developer to find out more about his self-learned journey. Arpatech: Marius, you have vast years of experience PHP Development side. How you started your career? When and how you started working with Magento? What challenges did you face in the initial stage of your career, and what you learned from these challenges? Marius: I started working with PHP 10 years ago, when I was fresh out of college. I had zero "hands on" experience with web development, but luckily I found a company that was willing to train me. The teal lead there, Florin, was a great guy on and off work, he had a lot of patience with me and he really made me like what I was doing. I don't think I have any memorable challenges from the start of my career. As I said, I had a great team lead that handled all the "fire-fighting". But I can mention a challenge that happened 2 years later. It's called Magento. I started working with it by "mistake" with no one to guide me or help me. No documentation, no previous experience with a similar system, nothing. It took me 1 month to come up with a product import from a third party system, that was really really slow and sometimes crashed. Then I screwed up the core and had to upgrade manually. Then screwed it up again. You probably can guess what I've learned from this. Yep..."Never touch the core". Arpatech: Currently you are working in Arnia Software as a PHP Developer since 3+ years, And in this time frame you got 2 Honor Awards “Magento Pioneer Award” and “Magento Master: Mentor”. How do you feel about achieving these awards? What was your reaction when you were nominated for these awards :)? Share some motivational thoughts with our readers, how you made yourself a Magento Master: Mentor? Marius: You are right. I've been working at Arnia Software for more than 3 years (and counting). It's a great place to work, I'm surrounded by people that I can call, without any regret, my friends. This makes it a lot easier every day. But the awards did not come because of my work at Arnia. I rarely do any Magento projects here. I haven't worked on one in 2 years. The nominations and awards made me happy of course. It showed that the work I've done so far is appreciated and useful. It all started with the challenge I mentioned before. I had to learn Magento by myself. Back then the old magento forum was really slim with shady answers and I started answering questions with challenges similar to what I had to make it easier for others. Years later magento.stackexchange came along and I shifted my focus there, mostly because the forum was more spam than useful information. I had some free time at that point to answer questions. For a lot of them I didn't know the answer but they were interesting enough to make me dig further. That helped me learn a lot as well. As for motivation, I have nothing more to say than "always take a hands on approach". I'm not good at motivating people :). Arpatech: Marius, You are the most active and helpful member in the Magento community. What’s your advice for newbie, who want to connect their self with Magento? What is the best Magento learning platform you recommend for developers? Marius: I don't know if I'm still the most active lately. I don't have that much spare time as I used to. There are a lot of people that became active on StackExchange and the new forum, Thumbs up to everyone. My advice, same as above, when hitting a problem, first try to understand the problem and then look for solutions. Today, not like 8 years ago, there is a lot of good learning material on the web. There is stackoverflow with a large pool of questions and answers for magento. Now they started the documentation section that covers Magento 1 and Magento 2, there is magento.stackexchange.com, there is the Magento forum and a lot of good blogs out there. I will not list them all because I don't know them all, but I want to mention my good friends at Inchoo. Arpatech: What would be your recommendations for e-merchants who are looking to upgrade from 1.x to the Magento 2? How do you foresee the future of Magento, After the release of Magento 2? Marius: I don't think I'm in a position to give advice to merchants about Magento 2. I haven't worked in a real life Magento 2 project. All I can say is that at some point they will have to make the switch, Magento 1 comes to EOL in 2 years so .... Arpatech: Marius, What are your thoughts about Magento 2? What would you recommend to those developers who are working on migrating their store from Magento 1 to Magento 2? And what features do you think they should keep into consideration while doing the migration? What features you like to see in Magento 2? Marius: I have mixed feelings about Magento 2, but they are based only on the things I've been able to dig so far just for fun. There are a lot of things I like, like the plugin system and the fact that there are small separate config files for each purpose, no more big fat config file in which you can get lost. But there are some things I don't like. The only one I'm going to mention is the lack of consistency. Now, the same thing is done in more ways even in the core. For example the admin grids and add/edit forms. But, from what I understood from the core team, this will get standardized in the next releases. And there are things I don't understand yet and I don't want to talk about them :). My favorite improvement in Magento 2 is the way of creating configurable products and the fact that you can see without any clicks, the categories assigned to a products. Those have always been the hardest to explain to new developers and specially to clients. Arpatech: Magento uses extensions and modules, which extensions would you recommend for the deployment of each Magento web store? What's your advice for building own extensions and which things should the developer consider while developing their own extensions? Marius: I don't want to recommend any extensions. There are a lot of good extensions out there that serve different purposes. I don't even know where to begin and I don't want to turn this interview into a popularity contest. As for advice for building an extension...nothing fancy, just a few common sense guidelines that will ensure a good code quality and an easy maintainability. I wrote this Magento SE post a while ago when I tried to install 2 horribly written extensions and struggled for 1 day to make them work even is they were marketed as plug&play. Don't be those guys. Coincidence...I'm presenting something about building Magento extension this year at MeetMagento Romania but on a slightly different approach. The slides will be online after the conference. Arpatech: You were an attendee of the Magento Imagine 2016. How many Magento events have you attended till date? In your opinion, what are the advantages of attending the Magento Imagine and Meet Magento conferences for amateurs who want to involve themselves in the Magento Community? Marius: This year it was my third Imagine and each year is different. Beside Imagine I've been twice to Meet Magento Romania (this year will be my third) and to MageTitans Italy this year. Like I said, every conference is different because of the venue, the culture of the country, the food and the after party :), but one thing is the same. The atmosphere. The same friendly people that share the same obsession/passion/frustration/goal. I strongly recommend these events as a way of learning something new or getting new ideas from different presentations but mostly for the people involved. Everyone is friendly and willing to chat over a cup of coffee in the morning and over a beer in the evening. Lets socialize in real life not only on the web. Arpatech: Let’s get aside Magento and talk about your personal interests, how you spend your time besides work? Are you a Family guy :)? Which sport you like to play? Marius: When I'm not working, I spend my time with my wife, Oana, and our 3yo son, Alex. That takes about all of my spare time and I'm loving every second of it. And from time to time I like to compensate the fact that I spend most of the time on a chair in front of the computer. I try, at least once a week to play football/soccer and once tennis. I would really love it if, for a future Magento event, someone organizes a MageFootball or TennisGento or MageBasketball tournament similar to the MageRun events. Arpatech: Everyone has a few mentors, whose work and quotes inspire us. Can you name some of the people of Magento community who have motivated you throughout your journey? Marius: Oh, there are a lot of people that inspire me. I'm sorry because I'm sure I forgot someone in the list below. I have to start with my good friends, the MageStackDay crew. Anna Völkl, Sander Mangel and David Manners. I talk to them daily and complain about our problems and communicate solutions and ideas. Then there is Ben (he doesn't need a last name, because he's a superstar). I'm really amazed how he can keep it together while spending more time on a plane than on the ground. Phil Jackson with all the podcasts and NomadMage and all the other things he organizes (I lost track of them), I don't know where he gets the time. Vinai Koop who is trying to teach the world proper development etiquette and making all of us write tests. Fabrizio Branca that is always one step ahead of everyone and takes development and infrastructure setup to another level. And I really want to mention someone that, from my point of view, does not get enough recognition and exposure in the Magento Community even if he should. Allan MacGregor. A great guy and a Magento Guru. Many of us are facing problems in adding custom attributes to customer profile in Magento 2. Here is how to add a custom field in Magento 2. Thanks to sashas extension for providing easy solution on adding a custom field. There are many ways to add custom field for customers in Magento 2. Today we will focus on extension for Magento 2 which adds attribute to customer edit page at admin. To begin with you will need Magento 2 installed with demo data. For more information you can see the Magento 2 installation guide. Our step by step instruction allow you to create a successful attribute of Customer in admin panel. 1) Creating pillar of Magento 2 Extension You must have heard about the change in architecture of Magento with the release of Magento 2, but you don’t need to worry about it now. The extension files are placed exactly same way as it was in Magento 1.x. The extension files will be under app/code/(CompanyName)/(ExtensionName). For this tutorial the company name we will use is Sashas and extension name will be customerAttribute. You can use you own company/extension name as per your need. We will create folders and path to the extension will be app/code/Sashas/CustomerAttribute/ The folder structure inside the extension folder in Magento 2 is quiet similar to Magento 1.x. We will need to create ‘etc’ and ‘setup’ folder inside the Magento extension folder. The folder structure will look like this In next step you will need to create module.xml file for extension to declare the version and visibility for Magento2. The module.xml file is replacement of for the previous module file under app/etc/modules folder. This way will lead all files of extension to be in one folder. 2) Creating Module file for Customer attribute in Magneto 2 For this tutorial, I assume you know how to create a file in Magento 2. Read here to know more about Magento file structure. To begin with, we need to create the file app/code/Sashas/CustomerAttribute/etc/module.xml. This file will make the extension visible. module.xml [xml] <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?> <!-- /** * @author Sashas * @category Sashas * @package Sashas_CustomerAttribute * @copyright Copyright (c) 2015 Sashas IT Support Inc. (http://www.extensions.sashas.org) */ --> <config xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="../../../../../lib/internal/Magento/Framework/Module/etc/module.xsd"> <module name="Sashas_CustomerAttribute" setup_version="1.0.0"> <sequence> <module name="Magento_Customer"/> </sequence> </module> </config> [/xml] In the section we have defined the extension name and version. Here we used the name “Arpatech_CustomerAttr” and version = 1.0.0. You can use your own name of extension. Now we will add the list file. It will have the path app/code/Arpatech/customerAttr/Setup/InstallData.php. In next step we will create InstallData.php. 3) Creating CustomerInstallData file for Customer attribute in Magneto 2 The install function here is used to add attribute for entity “customer” and after it we set it to be used in form adminhtml_customer. As per your requirement the customer attribute can be used in different forms. For this tutorial we will use this attribute in customer edit page in admin panel. “used_in_forms” => [‘adminhtml_customer_address’, ‘customer_address_edit’, ‘customer_register_address’] [php] <?php /** * @author Sashas * @category Sashas * @package Sashas_CustomerAttribute * @copyright Copyright (c) 2015 Sashas IT Support Inc. (http://www.extensions.sashas.org) */ namespace Sashas\CustomerAttribute\Setup; use Magento\Customer\Setup\CustomerSetupFactory; use Magento\Customer\Model\Customer; use Magento\Eav\Model\Entity\Attribute\Set as AttributeSet; use Magento\Eav\Model\Entity\Attribute\SetFactory as AttributeSetFactory; use Magento\Framework\Setup\InstallDataInterface; use Magento\Framework\Setup\ModuleContextInterface; use Magento\Framework\Setup\ModuleDataSetupInterface;</pre> <pre> /** * @codeCoverageIgnore */ class InstallData implements InstallDataInterface { /** * @var CustomerSetupFactory */ protected $customerSetupFactory; /** * @var AttributeSetFactory */ private $attributeSetFactory; /** * @param CustomerSetupFactory $customerSetupFactory * @param AttributeSetFactory $attributeSetFactory */ public function __construct( CustomerSetupFactory $customerSetupFactory, AttributeSetFactory $attributeSetFactory ) { $this->customerSetupFactory = $customerSetupFactory; $this->attributeSetFactory = $attributeSetFactory; } /** * {@inheritdoc} */ public function install(ModuleDataSetupInterface $setup, ModuleContextInterface $context) { /** @var CustomerSetup $customerSetup */ $customerSetup = $this->customerSetupFactory->create(['setup' => $setup]); $customerEntity = $customerSetup->getEavConfig()->getEntityType('customer'); $attributeSetId = $customerEntity->getDefaultAttributeSetId(); /** @var $attributeSet AttributeSet */ $attributeSet = $this->attributeSetFactory->create(); $attributeGroupId = $attributeSet->getDefaultGroupId($attributeSetId); $customerSetup->addAttribute(Customer::ENTITY, 'magento_username', [ 'type' => 'varchar', 'label' => 'Magento Username', 'input' => 'text', 'required' => false, 'visible' => true, 'user_defined' => true, 'sort_order' => 1000, 'position' => 1000, 'system' => 0, ]); $attribute = $customerSetup->getEavConfig()->getAttribute(Customer::ENTITY, 'magento_username') ->addData([ 'attribute_set_id' => $attributeSetId, 'attribute_group_id' => $attributeGroupId, 'used_in_forms' => ['adminhtml_customer'], ]); $attribute->save(); } } [/php] As you can see we have used attribute code magento_name and we set the properties in similar way as Magento 1.x. After you get through with the code you need to launch Magento Upgrade and clean cache. You can use shell command to launch Magento Upgrade: php bin/magento setup:upgrade. This will perform all necessary upgrade for extension. After upgrading you will need to clear all the cache. To clear the cache use the following shell command: php bin/magento cache:flush-all I hope now you will be able to create customized plugin in Magento 2. Know how to save your store against brute force attack. One of the finest services that Google is offering for managing and designing your web page is Google Analytics. This feature allows you to give more attention to significant ratios like conversion, tracking records of your web pages. Often the issue is observed that numerous Magento store owners do not have a sound awareness of the services which Google Analytics is providing related to tracking. This feature offers in-depth insights of your web page's traffic, visitor segmentation, demographics visualization and objective related tracking. To give your e-commerce business an edge and new dimension these services play an important role. Google Analytics is providing it's users with a wide range of services like tracking the data and managing the records of the visitors and enabling sign up for the website. Nevertheless, the most complex task is to track the data and simultaneously doing its collection process for an E-commerce website. Today we want to make this task easier for you, so follow the given steps to be able to Track and collect Ecommerce data for your Magento store: - Login to your Google Analytics account - Click the Admin button on top of the bar, and then click on Ecommerce Settings - In the section of Ecommerce Settings, Enable Ecommerce set-up and then turn on Enable Enhanced Ecommerce Reporting. Next, click on Submit and your Google Analytics is now set for gathering and tracking the data records from your Magento web page. Google Analytics Connection to Magento Next thing you have to do now is to set up Google Analytics for your Magento web page. For this purpose, you should copy your Google Analytics Account Id. (which you set in the previous step) then from your Analytics Admin Board, Go to Account Settings and here you will see your Google Analytics Id. Now Copy it from there. Next step you have to go to your Admin Panel of Magento and from there follow this path: System > Configuration > Google API > Google Analytics. Go to the drop down menu and Select Yes, then you have to Enable Google Analytics. Next, go to the Account Number Option and add your Account ID here then Click the Save Config button. You are all set to go now! This way by using Google Analytics you can easily track and collect data from your Magento Store. Final Thought In case you are a user of the old version of Magento then you will possibly come across issues while tracking your data. We suggest that you DO NOT install external plugins or extensions. Instead of that you should upgrade your Magento to the latest available release, after that go to the settings and enable Google Analytics, which will help you to track your Magento web page’s traffic. URL Rewriting is often the quickest and healthy way to improve SEO and ranking of your website. The links pointing to a URL are redirected to the new web address. This helps in making URL search engine friendly along with improved readability for humans. To begin with, you will need to enable web server Apache rewrites. It is part of initial setup of Magento 2. Magento perform automatic URL Rewrites by removing the file name that lay no value for search engine and users. The system exclude the part of URL in root page which says “index.php”. The part of URL has no value to users and even for search engine. Today, we will focus on how to setup URL rewrites and Automatic product redirects in Magento 2. After this tutorial you will be able to configure URL Rewrites in Magento 2.x Let’s enable URL rewrites in Magento 2.x Enable Url rewrites Login in to the admin panel, on the side bar click stores Choose configuration. On left pane expand catalog and select catalog from the list The configuration window will open, click on Search Engine Optimization and look for Create Permanent Redirect for URLs if URL Key Changed. Set it to yes. Automatically Redirect URl Catalog To automatically redirect catalog URls, follow the steps given below. On side bar click Products and select catalog. The list of products will appear. Find the product from the list and open it Go to Search Engine Optimization and expand it. Make sure Create Permanent Redirect for old URL is checked. Set the url and remove any white spaces with hyphens and characters to make it search engine friendly . Use correct Meta Title and Description which suits the product. After saving you will be prompted to refresh the cache. Don’t worry, just follow the links stated in the message. Congratulations your permanent redirect is now in effect. To view the records click on Marketing on left pane and select URL Rewrites under SEO and Search. The permanent redirects will be visible in the list. Conclusion You can take benefits from automatic URL Rewrites in Magento 2. I hope these steps are clearly described. Feel free to drop any suggestion or query in comments below. If you like it, please don't forget to share it :) The most popular e-commerce software today is Magento and it is more than likely to get attacked by many hackers since they want to get hold of your store. Hackers intend to steal the personal information and credit card details of your customers through brute-force attacks. These are simple trial and error attacks in which the hacker uses combinations of usernames and passwords in order to break into your account. Even though Magento itself has several build in security protocol and features yet there is still more you can do to protect your Magento store from security breaches. Over the years we have observed several improved security tactics which we recommend for all the merchants who want to further protect their store and stop hackers from getting access of it. Custom Admin Path The standard two sections in each Magento store for administrative purposes are located at /admin and /downloader by default. Through the browser you can access the Magento store by navigating to domain.com/admin. The admin panel is prone to abuse in several ways by hackers as they can launch the brute-force attack easily. Simple passwords and usernames can be guessed with a few minutes. Your site will become slower while it undergoes the attack and valuable server capacity is wasted. To change the Admin path, go to Stores and choose Configuration. In the panel on the left, under Advanced, choose Admin and expand the Admin Base URL section. Then, do the following: Set Use Custom Admin URL to “Yes.” Then, enter the Custom Admin URL and you are all set. Choose an Intricate Username and Password If you have changed your admin login page there are still chances that a hacker can locate it. To ensure more security you should use a username and password so complex that it becomes almost impossible to guess. Keep your password at least composed of 16 characters which are mixed with lower and upper case, numbers and also symbols. Use the Upgraded Latest Version of Magento Each version of Magento upgrades to newer versions which are often released to patch up the discovered security risks found within the software. This gives you reason good enough to update your Magento store to the latest stable version which is released in the web market. After the release of Magento 2.0 it didn’t take long to release Magento 2.1 since there were some prominent bugs which required update. Update Your Antivirus Software on Daily Bases This is an understood thing which goes without saying, but there are several Magento store owners who hardly seem to update their anti-virus software. Hackers can place key-loggers on your laptop easily that’s why you have to ensure that you are using an anti-virus software which is commercial graded and is being updated on a daily basis. HTTPS/SSL Must for All Login Pages Without a secure connection you are under the risk of being attacked by a hacker each time you use your username and password. You should eliminate this by always using HTTPS/SSL in Magento. For doing this click on the “System” tab present at the main toolbar and select “Configure” from drop down menu. After doing this click on “Web” tab which is present at the left hand navigation side, select “Secure” in the main window. You will be able to change the Base URL from here for your store, change it from http://... to https://... Do Not forget to select “yes” for both “use secure URLs in Front-end” and “Use secure URLs in Admin”. At the end, click “Save Config” which is present at the top of the page. Now you are set to go. Ensure the Usage of Private and Secured Email Address There are some sophisticated hackers who use social engineering to find out who is running the e-commerce site they are going to hack. Social websites like LinkedIn, Facebook are easily used to do searches regarding the company’s details and name. There are several companies and people who list their official email address in their social profiles or follow a standard email format of the company like abc@companyname.com. The hacker tries to hack the company’s email address and after getting access of that they can easily reach your Magento admin panel and request to reset the password. They can now easily change the username, email address and password that links to the admin and get full control of your Magento store. To stop this from happening you should never use your common email address for your admin login. Try using a private email address instead, which is not likely to be shared outside your company. For example dxy3h4@company.com also use a very complex combination of password to ensure extra security for accessing this private email account. Before and After Services of Outside developer Change Your Passwords Each business requires the services of outside developers from time to time in order to help them with improving their Magento store. To ensure security make sure you change your admin and FTP password before giving them access. Once the work is done, then change it again. There is no surety that the companies you outsourced the work to are as guarded as you are. It’s always better to be taking extra precautions in such cases to avoid a security breach. Do you want to know more tips about how to secure your Magento Store from brute-force attacks? Share with us the issues you have faced personally and we will provide you with more tips on how to safeguard your store. One of the most important aspects of running any online store is keeping a proper backup of everything so that in case anything goes wrong you can restore it with ease anytime. You can also adjust settings and edit your site without worrying that your web page will go offline. So as you can see, maintaining a backup of the site is pretty important. The functionality is built-in Magento 2 to ensure that the backup is created of the data and then it can restore all the codes, media and also your site's database whenever you require it. At times it is a critical task to restore backups. There are many options available if you desire to make a back up of your site's data. Through this article, we will guide you in steps how you can do the process of backing your data and then how you can restore it by the use of CLI commands. So let's get started! Before We Begin Before going further, you must check that you have installed a working Magento 2 beforehand on your system. Now access the installation of your Magento 2 via the shell and you have to use SSH. First login via SSH, after this go to the app which is present at the root folder, bin, var folders are placed of Magento 2. Backup/Snapshot - How to do it Once you are done with the step of changing Magento 2 directory to the root of it, install and run the command below: php bin/magento setup:backup -v --code --media --db It will create three types of backups which include: Code Media, for example, the pictures or videos, etc. The data's Database which is of high necessity for your store. Note that during the backup of your store, as it will change the mode of your site to maintenance mode. During the back up the live site of your store will not be available during backup and all of the backups will be stored in the var/backups As for the output, it will look similar to this: a. Here if you only want to backup media, then just omit all the other attributes from the above command and enter the following one instead of the first one: php bin/magento setup:backup --media The Magento 2's media backup is around 153 MB. b. Otherwise, if you want to only backup database, then go to the shell and there write the mentioned command in where you have started to work. php bin/magento setup:backup --db The Magento 2's database backup is around 14 MB. c. Finally, in orde to backup the code base only, the following command will do the job: php bin/magento setup:backup --code The Magento 2's code base backup is around 123 MB. Determining the Backup Files php bin/magento info:backups:list This will provide output along with a listed files which are backed up. It will look something like this: During the whole maintenance mode, Magento 2 system successfully made your site's backups and those three backups are listed here. Once the list is generated, you will now determine the backup files. To do this, write the command: ls -lt var/backups/ It will show all the files that are now in this folder of your Magento 2 system along with their all number of the files. This step is done by us to make it easy for ourselves to view the files that we want to rollback, which is the next section of this tutorial. After you have entered the command the result looks similar to this: Rollback/Restore - How to do it Once you have made a backup of your files you can now restore or rollback. Remember whenever you are doing the rolling back process, this means the system will delete the specific files and also database beforehand the system does restores. For this follow the following ... 1. You first need to login via SSH (if you haven’t logged in). 2. After logging in, navigate to the var/backups folder where you have all the backup files in your Magento installations. In this step, you have to be sure about the DB i.e the .sql file being in the right folder. 3. Now enter the command on the shell to restore the files, the command will look something like this: php bin/magento setup:rollback [-c|--code-file=”<name>”][-m|--media-file=”<name>”][-d|--db-file=”<name>”] a. Here, if you only want to restore the database files, then you can enter the following command in the shell. For instance: php bin/magento setup:rollback -d 1470820565_db.sql b. If you only want to restore the media files, then you can enter the mentioned command in the shell. For instance: php bin/magento setup:rollback -m 1470820565_filesystem_media.tgz c. Lastly, if you only want to restore the code files, then you can enter the following command in the shell. For example: php bin/magento setup:rollback -c 1470820565_filesystem_code.tgz Note: You will change the file name on the command line after -d or -c or -m In this case, the command will be as shown if all three files are being rolled back. php bin/magento setup:rollback -c 1470820565_filesystem_code.tgz -m 1470820565_filesystem_media.tgz -d 1470820565_db .sql Once you have entered the above mentioned commands, you will receive an alert from your system about the confirmation regarding the files you selected that do you want to restore these or not. You have to press just Y in case you want to continue, otherwise to cancel the process or if you want to make changes to anything by navigating back, then you should just enter N. Once you have entered the command for the file that you want to rollback or all three and pressed Y then the output will be like (in your case it may be a bit different): In case you receive the segmentation fault while confirmation, you can very easily fix that by using the following command. But the command only runs if you have PHP 7. We think it is a good practice to work on new technologies as soon as they are introduced in the market. The command is... ulimit -s 65536 Or you can also store this in .bashrc file on your system if you don't want to enter the command. Congratulations! You have now successfully made a backup and restored your files. Now there are some final things to do to make changes effective. Below are some commands that you have to enter to complete the process. Always flush and clean the caches. The commands are... php bin/magento maintenance:disable rm -fr var/cache/* var/di/* var/geration/* var/page_cache/* sudo chmod -R 777 var php bin/magento cache:flush php bin/magento setup:static-content:deploy php bin/magento setup:upgrade sudo chmod -R 777 var Scheduling the Backup In order to schedule the backup of your store, you may be required to set up the cron job. Run the following command to do this... */1****php/var/www/html/bin/magento cron:run Once you have entered this command, you have now successfully created a cron schedule in the Magento 2 database. Also, you can create a daily, weekly or monthly backup using the frontend of the admin panel of the Magento 2 system. To do so, go to Stores >> Configuration >> Advanced >> System. Now select the Scheduled Backup Settings and enter all the required fields and set up the schedule. Conclusion By giving the step by step process, we have made this job easier for you so that you are now able to backup your store easily while restoring it will be like a piece of cake. Although we recommend that you always maintain an up to date backup of your store, this will help you to avoid any bad circumstances from happening. As the saying goes, “A Klingon warrior is always prepared to fight” so be like a true fighter and be prepared beforehand to fight by having your backups in place. You should hope for the best, yet prepare for the worst. If you are having issues still? We recommend that you ask us or give your feedback in the comments section present below. Do share! Give it a Like! Follow us! ;) Each year the event is organized by Mage Titans to expand the community with Magento developers. It is an annually held event which commenced back in 2014. The first time around it was held in the UK. This year it is back and being held in Austin.TX USA from 8th – 9th of September 2016 and an additional workshop will be held at ShipStation on the 10th of September. We have been anticipating an overwhelming participation of Magenticians from the developer community. It is going to be a mega spotlight affair in the Magento world. The event partners are ShipperHQ and Space48. Road Map Following the pattern of the previous conferences, this year it is going to kick off in the same manner with the listed expert speakers giving valuable development insights of Magento. This a huge opportunity to meet some of the great Magento community members. It serves as a platform for developing connections and strengthen your existing ties. Speakers Sponsoring Companies Venue [gallery type="rectangular" ids="2337,2338,2339,2340"] Participants Each year roughly more than 130 + participants gather from different countries around the globe to attend this mega event. It is the ultimate platform for Magento Developers to get motivations and insights regarding the newest updates and trends of Magento. It gives the attendees an opportunity to personally meet and talk to Expert Magento Developers and get a chance to exchange their experiences regarding the developments of Magento. While this event also serves as a meet up for old colleagues, who get to exchange their feedback on the strategies and past conversations. As a tradition followed each year, it’s time for wishing Google Happy birthday. Just like every other search engine growing older google is also aging, jokes apart there is still a lot of controversy regarding the date 27th of September being the official birth date of google. Tracking back the records and doing some research clearly reveals that the ever so phenomenal search engine has celebrated six times its 18th birthday till date. This means that there is something seriously going wrong with the Google’s Birthday Celebratory Doodle. Let’s dig a little deeper into this, shall we by considering some evident facts: There is a date when the company was conceived in the garage then we have the date when the company was officially incorporated and last but not the least comes the date when the Google site was first launched. Confusing much! We are too but let’s simplify it as the birth date of the company is what it chooses it to be, still, we cannot ignore the fact that the only thing wrong with the Google's 18th birthday celebratory doodle is that it has clearly stopped aging. Though what is an alarming moment of real concern is that why has a universally acknowledged search engine not given any importance to that! Well, it is evident that the date of birth of google has varied over the years. So it may be considered that not even our dear Google knows how old it is and what exactly is its real birth date. Nevertheless, we still wish it many more years of success and thank it for making our lives much easier by providing exceptional quality searching capabilities. Let’s face it that our lives have been affected in one way or the other ever since the invention of it  Sean Breeden is a Magento Certified Developer and Developer Plus. He is currently working at Jamersan as a Magento Developer, and has a vast experience working in different organizations in senior and leading positions. He was awarded the “StackOverflow Magento Badge” which is a sheer proof that he is a super-active member in Magento community. So, we contacted him and got in touch with him to know more about what he's up to nowadays. So, read along and let’s find out: Arpatech: Sean, you have a vast experience of the development side. From 2006 to 2016 you were working in InteractOne as Senior Developer. How was your experience with InteractOne? What challenges did you face in these years? How did you start your career with Magento? Share some interesting experiences and some challenging times of your career with our readers. Sean: Like any developer in any agency, my experiences in the decade that I was with InteractOne had its ups and downs. I always tried to be helpful to developers who were just starting out and provided support to everyone whenever it was needed. I’d like to think that I taught as much as I learned over the years. Even though I have moved on, I do wish them all the best. I got started with Magento on the recommendation from a friend when it was still in beta. After spending some time evaluating Magento as a possible alternative to our current e-commerce solutions, I brought it to the attention to our VP. It was very frustrating trying to work with Magento at first but as time went on, it became more familiar. Now, I love it and can’t imagine not working with it every day. The most difficult challenge early on was getting clients to make the jump to Magento. Few people had heard of it and were skeptical about making the switch. It seemed that e-commerce was in a state of flux in the mid-2000s with a lot of companies attempting to make a great online shopping package but no one had anything that was secure and affordable. There were the usual expensive giants out there and there was also no shortage of smaller, loosely maintained packages. No one stepped up to the plate the way Magento did. I knew it was the way to go and I’ve never regretted my decision to specialize in it. My first professional project with Magento was a site that needed a brand’s page with images that linked to detail pages. Figuring out how to write my first Magento grid and uploader was challenging so it took a few weeks to complete the project. It’s something I could do in less than an hour now. Looking back to the beginning it amazes me how far it’s all progressed in a relatively short period of time. Since then I have worked on projects ranging from very small businesses to Fortune 500 companies. Arpatech: Currently you are working in Jamersan as Senior Developer, What are the common queries you faced during your work? When did you realize that you have a passion for programming? Sean: Jamersan’s team has some of the most talented people I’ve ever had the pleasure of working with. It’s a fast-paced environment with an emphasis on continuing education. Our boss, TJ, wants us to be the best and makes sure that we have the tools we need to reach that goal. Every day presents new and interesting challenges. The types of tasks I work on range from small code tweaks to creating in-depth custom modules to meet the client’s requirements. I enjoy figuring out the best Magento-friendly approach to solving problems. It’s very rewarding to finish a task then commit a well-formed module. Getting positive feedback from everyone after watching my code go from concept to production is a great feeling. The earliest memory I have of wanting to be a programmer was when I started tinkering in Basic on a TI-99/4A when I was 11. Soon after, I wrote a blackjack program and a non-player character generator for Dungeons & Dragons in Basic on a Commodore Vic-20. Later on, I spent many days typing out the Basic programs from Compute magazine on my Commodore 64. It was around that time that I knew that programming was something that I never wanted to stop doing. Arpatech: Nowadays, Magento is a very popular e-commerce platform. What are some useful features in Magento 1x for developers? Share some tips for newbies who want to get started with Magento? Sean: There are some built-in developer tools in Magento that are good to know. Under System -> Configuration -> Advanced, there’s a section named “Developer” that has the Template & Block Hints feature. That’s a pretty commonly used built-in feature but there are third-party utilities that make troubleshooting Magento a lot easier. The oldest and most useful utility I would recommend for Magento developers is CommerceBug by Alan Storm. He recently released CommerceBug 3 which has support for Magento 1 and 2. Another good tool that’s educational and useful is Chris Manger’s Enhanced Developer Tools Extension. It has a lot of really useful features for Magento developers and people who want to learn about Magento. When a developer types in a word that’s in a block, then it provides the block’s name, class, template file, layout XML file, and other miscellaneous information. n98-magerun is another must-have for any serious Magento developer. The magerun.net site describes it as “a huge set of well-tested command line commands which save hours of work time.” That’s it in a nutshell. There are versions for Magento 1 and Magento 2. The most important advice I can give to someone starting out with Magento is to choose a good IDE. I highly recommend phpStorm with the Magicento plug-in. If you’ve never tried phpStorm then what are you waiting for? Arpatech: In 2014 you were awarded StackOverflow Magento Badge, How do you feel about achieving these awards? What was your reaction when you were nominated :)? Sean: StackOverflow is great and I try to participate as much as time allows. Achieving the Magento badge means that my answers have helped a lot of people. According to StackOverflow, my answers have reached ~456,000 users. I’ve had co-workers and other developers tell me that they were looking for an answer to a problem and my name came up from SO during their search. Programmers everywhere use it regularly to find answers to their problems. To be able to get help from talented people like Ben Marks, Vinai Kopp, Marius Strajeru and too many others to name, makes StackOverflow and Magento StackExchange an incredibly valuable resource. Arpatech: Sean, You have multiple Magento certificates (MCSS, MCD+, MCD). What’s your recommended learning platform for Magento certification? What are the advantages of being a certified Magento Solution Specialist and Developer Plus? Sean: I learned a lot by filling in the study guide outline provided by Magento for the MCD exam. I don’t think it’s a good idea to get a certification just for the sake of having it. A certification should be something that happens organically as a programmer’s skill level improves. In March of 2011, I was able to attend Magento U led by Ben Marks and Vinai Kopp. I learned more in that week that the previous years of working with Magento. I took the beta MCD certification at Innovate in 2011 and failed in it. I tried again in 2012 and missed it by 3 questions. I’m a horrible test taker and tend to blank out during tests. After that failed attempt, I spent every spare minute of the next three months studying. By the time I re-tried I passed by a very comfortable margin. Don’t get discouraged if you fail. You only truly fail if you give up! The main advantage of having any Magento certification is that it helps confirm that I’m familiar with the platform. The MCD+ demonstrates that I understand the back-end/coding side of Magento Enterprise and the MCSS lets people know that I’m familiar with the Magento admin and that I know how to use Magento to meet a client’s business needs. Arpatech: Extensions are very useful. Which extensions do you recommend for speeding up Magento 1.x? Or do you recommend coding your own extensions? Share some useful tips for those developers who want to build their own extension. Sean: Mirasvit’s FPC extension is a great full page caching module for speeding up Magento 1. Of course, simply following best coding practices is crucial to keep a Magento store running quickly. When a client has speed complaints from a site and they’re on a decent web host then chances are they have some improperly coded features bogging things down. More recently I’ve been working with Google PageSpeed. It’s an amazing server component but it takes some server admin experience to get everything working properly. I have been very impressed by the results of a finely-tuned PageSpeed configuration. I recommend coding your own extensions whenever possible. Purchasing extensions can be a huge time-saver as long as it’s high-quality and has ongoing support. It can be overkill if the goal is to add a minor change to the site. Arpatech: How do you see Magento in the coming years with Magento 2? How can merchants improve their sales with Magento 2? What further features are you excited to see in Magento 2? If you get a chance to include some features in Magento 2, what would be those features? What are your expectations for Magento 2 in 2016? Sean: Considering that there’s still sites running older e-commerce platforms that pre-date Magento, I don’t expect Magento 1 to go away at it’s prescribed end-of-life. It wouldn’t surprise me to see someone fork it to continue improving the platform after Magento officially stops supporting it. Any developers that think Magento 2 is like “starting over” need to remember that the Magento developers have taken all of the lessons learned throughout the course of building Magento 1 and incorporated them into 2. I’m still learning Magento 2 but it’s all really clicking into place for me. I like it very much! I look forward to being as engrossed in Magento 2 as I currently am in Magento 1. Merchants can expect better performance and scalability with Magento 2. It has a more contemporary feel to it and is built with responsive design in mind from the beginning. A faster site with multiple browsers and mobile device support means that a Magento 2 site can reach a larger audience with faster page load times which will result in higher conversions. Arpatech: You were an attendee of Magento Imagine 2015. In your opinion, what are the advantages of attending the Magento conferences like Magento Imagine, Meet Magento, Mage Titans for amateurs who want to involve themselves in the Magento Community? Share some of your interesting moments from Imagine with our readers. Sean: Magento goes all out at their conferences. They’re a lot of fun and even someone who has just started learning Magento can benefit from the experience. Being able to attend lectures hosted by the top people in the community is awesome. It would be impossible to pick a specific moment that stands out because the entire event is amazing! I always learn a lot, whether by watching a presentation by a Magento master or chatting with other attendees throughout the day. I always leave feeling like the costs to attend were well worth it. Arpatech: Sean, Which conferences you are going to attend in the future? In 2011 you made a big Magento group “Magento Certified Developers” on Facebook. So, how has your experience been so far with the community members? Which social platforms are you using to stay connected with the Magento community? Sean: I’m planning on attending Magento Imagine in 2017. I look forward to seeing what’s in Magento 2’s future first-hand, straight from the mouths of the developers and other giants in this industry. I started the Facebook group in 2011 before the MCD certification was released. The goal was to create a social media forum that was focused on helping people find resources to learn about Magento. There’s close to 3,000 members now and no spam allowed. I will only approve posts that contribute something to the community. I love the Magento community. I don’t think there’s another group out there more willing to help it’s members and freely share knowledge for the overall good. Arpatech: So, Sean, let’s put Magento aside and talk about your personal interests. How you spend your time besides work? Do you like Sports? What's your favourite place and how many international trips have you taken so far? Sean: I’m not really a sports fan. I enjoy what I do so much that a lot of the time it doesn’t feel like work, so my work and hobbies sometimes overlap. In my free time, I follow augmented and virtual reality closely. I’m very excited to see the technology finally start to catch up with the VR dreams of thirty years ago. My favorite place is where I live right now here in Port Orange, Florida. We were slammed pretty hard by Hurricane Matthew but luckily my area was spared a lot of the devastation that people close by experienced. My fence was blown away and we had some superficial damage but that’s obviously nothing compared to what others have lost. I was very fortunate but it’s bittersweet to be relieved about that since so many lost their lives and homes. I don’t travel a lot but I visited the UK (London) for six months in 2010. It was interesting to see how life is in another country. One of the major highlights was when my wife and I went to see Stonehenge on an after-hours tour where they allowed a small group of us to walk inside the circle of stones for an hour. Arpatech: The Magento Community is huge. There are always some individuals who stand out in the crowd. Name some peoples that inspired and influenced you in the Magento world and inspire you with their work? Sean: I tend to listen to everything that Ben Marks and Vinai Kopp have to say about Magento. I enjoy Vinai’s Mage2Kata series and would like to see more developers do similar things. I worked directly with Ryan Street for a while and have learned a lot from him. He’s a very talented individual! Alan Storm always gives back to the Magento community with his blogs and is very helpful. I have the highest respect for those that have taken the time to give back like he does. A few months ago Alan Storm asked a question about Magento 2 on Twitter. I responded by posting “It makes me nervous when you have to ask Magento questions. You usually are the one with the answers.” He replied, “I have the answers because I ask the questions.” That stuck with me. I’ve never been afraid to say “I don’t know” and seeing a talented programmer like Alan Storm ask others for help has been motivating me to ask a lot more of my own questions. Tim Bezhashvyly is a Magento certified developer with over 17 years of PHP and 7 years of Magento development experience. He is a reputable Software Engineer and Senior Magento Developer at 21sportsgroup. Tim possess great information regarding PHP and Magento and is an active member of Magento community. He also loves writing community extensions, publishing articles and speaking in conferences. Today, we got a chance to talk to him. Arpatech: Tim, you have vast experience of more than 17 years in PHP development, how did you start you career with PHP? Did you face any problems at initial stage of your career? How did you overcome them? Tim: Depends on definition of career. I started programming way before I was legally allowed to be professionally employed. I guess I was 12 when I started with Basic, then Pascal, Turbo Pascal, Delphi and ActionScript. At university we had a boring course of C++. On the 3rd grade of study, I started working for an agency providing a support of an SAP-like system. So this was my first “professional” experience. This company had quite a crappy website so they have decided that I had to rebuild it. By that time I was already fine with HTML and CSS and to complete the picture I started learning Perl. However this was the time decay of Perl begun and rise of PHP. So the decision was obvious. Arpatech: Tim, you are certified Magento Developer with over 7 years of experience, you lead Magento team of 21sportsgroup. Please share your experience with Magento as a team lead. Tim: When I’m asked about Magento, I love to quote my friend and colleague Fabian Blechschmidt: “When you start working with Magento you don’t get a thing and you hate it [Magento]. Then you start understanding something and you feel good. This short period of time you adore and praise Magento. Unfortunately this ends when you realize the problems of Magento design and the limitations it puts on you. Love ends here, and where love ends disgust starts. It’s easy and fun to lead a team while you are in the second phase. You are excited and seeding your excitement around. It is hard however to promote Magento once you understand it is not just ignoring good practices but even prevents you from applying them. The main pain point here is a test driven development and unit testing in general. Arpatech: Our audience is eager to know what issues you usually face as a developer. Please tell about some best practices a developer must follow. Tim: As I already mentioned testing it very hard with Magento. And passing tests is the first principle of Kent Beck’s 4 rules of simple design. It’s also hard with Magento to keep up with (Uncle) Bob Martin’s SOLID principles as just a notion of protected methods is killing an idea of Open Closed Principle. Other principles are still possible to apply but when the framework itself in not following them it feels like fighting windmills. Magento 2.x was a great opportunity of turning things into a right direction but unfortunately this chance was not used. Please don’t get me wrong, I still think Magento is a viable piece of software. At least there’s no better alternative on the market yet. I just feel like all the love around it is a bit exaggerated. Arpatech: Tim, you have contributed in Magento Community by writing community extension. Can you suggest a quick guide to newbie developer of Magento? Tim: This is very easy if you would like to do it quick and dirty. In the beginning it even feels like Magento itself invites you to hack into the core classes by allowing just to copy them into a local scope and modify them there. It’s getting tricky when you try to write extensions according to programming principles mentioned above. In my opinion the only possible way here is to write module as a standalone PHP library and then make a thin layer which will connect it to Magento. This will give you an opportunity to start with tests, keep your own structure and so on. This connectivity layer will definitely be ugly but at least you will keep those bad things isolated. When you can not solve the problem, control it. Regarding tutorials of this approach the first thing that comes to mind is the presentation by Vinai Kopp at Mage Titans back in 2014. Arpatech: Let’s get back to your company, 21sportsgroup. What is the best project you have worked on so far? Did you face any difficulty in managing it? If yes, how did you overcome it? Tim: The main project is a company web shop based on Magento Enterprise Edition. The difficulties we faced were balance between server response time and data consistency. With Magento full page cache enabled data immediately became outdated and without cache the performance degradation was overwhelming. Unfortunately this is the problem most Magento-based shops of enterprise level are facing. After trying various things and advising with other specialists and consulting companies the decision has been made to replace Magento catalog completely. This is how Lizards & Pumpkins community project has been born. Arpatech: Tim you are an enthusiastic developer, how do you manage to stay updated with the community? Which platform you generally use for sharing knowledge and getting in touch with the community? Tim: For getting Magento news online I’m using Twitter. You will get my recommendation of people to follow in the next section. Besides of Twitter I would definitely recommend to meet community online. Here Thomas Fleck, Thomas Goletz and other members of Meet Magento Association made a great work of organizing series of regular events all around the globe. There are also regular Magento Unconferences in Germany and now also in Netherlands. I love those even more. Arpatech: You are an active member in Magento Community and have a good circle of friends and colleagues. Can you name some enthusiastic who you personally follow? Please tell our readers about the best way to interact with the community? Tim: Definitely follow Vinai Kopp and Ben Marks. If you want lots of Magento love and unicorns mind following Phil Jackson and Kalen Jordan. For some healthy portion of criticism I recommend following Cyrill Schumacher. Among others: Sylvain Raye, Anna Voelkl, David Manners, Bastian Ike, James Cowie, Fabrizio Branca and Fabian Blechschmidt (but you will have to filter out his non-programming tweets). Sorry to whom I forgot, I love you all. Arpatech: There are many good sources of learning and getting started with Magento. Can you suggest a newbie developer on how to start learning Magento. Is there any good source you would like to share with them? Tim: Get Grokking Magento book by Vinai Kopp. Arpatech: Let’s talk something out of your professional career. How do you spend your free time? Do you love any sports, traveling, reading books or just a peaceful sleep :) Tim: I’m writing poems, playing in a punk band, acting in movies and participating gay orgies. Unfortunately I’m a same boring geek as most of you. The most anticipated and awaited Meet Up for the Magento Community is finally here! Get ready for the Very First Magento Meet Up Dubai! Mark the date on your calendars and free up your schedule. One of the fastest growing business city in the world, Dubai, will be welcoming Magento Experts and E-commerce Community Members on the 29th of October this year at the Emirates Concorde Hotel. The purpose of the organizers is to gather Magento and e-commerce community members at Dubai and provide a platform which will enable the participants to interact with each other, get a chance to share your experiences and discuss the latest developments which have taken place in Dubai e-commerce Industry. If you happen to be passionate about Magento and e-commerce being a developer, online store owner or even someone who has just stepped foot in the e-commerce industry, you should be a part of this meetup. Magento Meetup is the place to gather useful insights and tap into a lot of opportunities by meeting other Magento and e-commerce community members in Dubai. From our prestigious platform of Magento Meetup, we are giving you the opportunity to contribute to the discussion by being a speaker on the topic of your choice related to Magento. It can be a great opportunity for you to let your voice echo through the community and share your learned techniques with the attendees. We look forward to hosting an awesome meet up while you are onboard with us. Revive, Discover and Join Magento Meetup Dubai! Bring in your friends related to Magento and e-commerce community and spread the word around the globe. Do You Want To Participate As A Speaker? If you are excited to share your experiences and insights about Magento as a speaker then drop a formal email to us at magentomeetup@arpatech.com Sponsorship Opportunity You have an excellent opportunity to shine as an official sponsor in the very first Magento Meetup Dubai. For sponsorship details email us at magentomeetup@arpatech.com. Supported by Magento Inc. Arpatech and Meet Magento Association. There are limited seats available, so act fast and register now to be the part of building the first Dubai Magento Community! For Further details subscribe to our Meetup channel. The rapid growth of Ecommerce is evident and it has become a priority for countless businesses in today’s world. For you it is now very important to set up your store's currency settings before the launching of your store since your customers will get engaged with it after the launch. There is a facility which Magento 2 provides and it lets you set up the currency for around 200 countries of the globe. For this purpose and ease of use the currency symbol is provided in the product prices, invoices and the orders. As a store admin you get the power to customize your own store’s appearance. You will find the currency chooser at the header of the store’s front, and it enables your store to accept more than one currency. If you happen to be unaware of how to configure the currency for your store in Magento 2 then follow the steps to learn with us and this will facilitate your customers to pay you in more than one currency. Configure Currency Step to Step Step 1: Define the Allowed Currency - From the Admin panel Go to the Configuration Stores >> Settings>>Configuration. - Under the GENERAL tab on the left panel you will find the Currency Setup, Select that. - Then from under the GENERAL, Open the Currency Options. - Base Currency : to do the online transaction select any base currency - Default Display Currency: In your store the currency which is being displayed as the pricing. - Allowed Currencies : Just by holding the ctrl key you can select the list of currencies which you want to allow and after this select the options. - In case the system alerts you with a reminder message about cache refreshment, then close that and refresh it. - Setting up the scope of the base currency - To go to the Price section, Under Catalog select the Catalog - Catalog Price Scope, select that as either Global or Website. Step 2: Configure the Import Connection - In the left panel under General option, Select Currency Setup then Open the Webservicex - Connection Timeout in seconds Put in the number of seconds after which the connection times out and expires. Step 3: Setting up the Scheduled Import Settings - Open Scheduled import Setting section in the Currency Setup tab - Enables set Yes if you want to auto update the currency rate and then do the following: - Service set the value from the drop down list. The default value is Web Services. - Start Time set the hour, minute and second after which the rates will be updated - Frequency set the value Daily, Weekly and Monthly for the updation of rates. - Error Email Recipient this field allows you to enter the email addresses of the persons you want to send email notifications of the error. If you want to add more than one address just separate them with a comma (,). - Error Email Sender the person who will appear on the email notification. - Error Email Template the Email template of the use of the error notification. - Save Config to save and apply the changes. - If the system displayed the message with “ Cache Management” link, you have to click on the link to refresh the invalid cache. Step 4: Updating Currency Rates Remember that the update in the currency rate you have to do it before undergoing any effects. You can either set these rates as manual, or you can import them. Also you can set the latest rates just by setting them to auto-update according to the schedule which you will set. This process can be done in the way as mentioned below: Updating Currency Rate Manually: - From the Admin sidebar choose Currency Rates after clicking Stores. - Choose the rate that you wanted to change and then change or overwrite the new value for each currency supported. - Hit Save Currency Rates. Importing Currency rates: - From the Admin sidebar choose Currency Rates after clicking Stores. - Choose the Import Service. “WebserviceX” is the default value of this field. - Click on the Import button. The new rates show up in the Currency Rates list. In the event that the rates have changed since the last update, the old rate shows up underneath for reference. - Once you have done the above steps click Save Currency Rates and your import is done. Importing Currency Rates on Schedule: - Enable cron on Magento 2 store. - Do the Currency Rate Setup to setup the currencies that your store will accept and to build up the import connection and schedule. - To ensure that the rates are imported on schedule, check the Currency Rates list. Now you have to wait for the time that it takes on frequency setting established for the schedule, and after this, do check the rates once more. Modifying the Currency Symbols You can modify the currency symbols as you need to just follow the steps mentioned below. - Go to Stores >> Currency >> Currency Symbols from Admin panel. - Insert the custom currency that you want after clearing the Use Standard checkbox. - To enable the new symbol just Save Currency Symbols. - On the system message don't forget to refresh the cache by clicking the Cache. Management link. Final Thoughts I made this tutorial to assist you in setting different currencies for your Magento store, so that you can facilitate your customers in using more than one currency. This will also provide ease to you as an admin since there is a base currency on which all the transactions will be performed. Nevertheless, it happens to be more secure way as through Magento 2 you are getting the facility to set up the timeout time for your stores ongoing transactions. Another additional advantage that you get is that you can easily modify the currency symbols too in case you want it to be according to your needs, such as $(American currency). If you have any questions or queries which you want to ask, feel free to leave a comment below and ask or you can ask via email too. ☺ Being one of the most powerful ecommerce platform in the industry, Magento boasts a stellar reputation because of its fluid functionality and secure infrastructure. And in this article we will discuss about how to configure multiple stores in Magento 2. So, we are all well-aware of the fact that there are many features which are launched by Magento from time to time. Multistore function is one of the features in Magento 2 which is for the merchants and developers. Magento 2 also provides you with the facility to setup multiple stores which you must have used in Magento 1 as well. But since we know that Magento 2 is absolutely different than the previous versions, it is a little difficult to manage features in it for those peoples who have just started doing development in Magento 2. This is because of the advancements that been made in the file system. So, without further ado, I’ll teach you the complete store configuration in Magento 2, so that you can further configure multiple stores in Magento 2 like a boss: Let’s Begin: When you want to create a second store in Magento 2, you have to go to the Admin dashboard of your Magento 2 store and from there follow this path Stores/ Settings / All Stores There are three options present under “All Stores” which you can see as “Create Website”, “Create Store View”, “Create Store”. The first thing you have to do is to click on the ‘Create Website’ Button. Now you have to enter the name of your second store in the Name field. Then enter your second store’s code name in the code field. (Make sure you remember your second store’s code) Next, for your second store’s website you have to click on ‘Create Store.’ Go in the “Web Site” option and select your website for your Magento 2 Store. Go in the “Name” field and enter the view name. Go in the “Root Category” there select “Default Category” and then click on the “Save Store” button. Once you have created your store, you now have to create the store view for your second store for Magento 2. Now Select and click on “Create Store View” Go in the“Store” field and Select your Magento 2 store Go in the “Name” field and then you have to enter your Store View Name Go in the “Code” field and enter the code which you previously entered in “Create Website” Once you have done this, now click on “Save Store View” button. After completing this step you can now connect your second store domain with the new store that you have just created. Now follow this path Stores > Settings > Configuration In “Configuration” click on your second store by selecting the option in “Store View”, it will be similar to what you can see in the top image. If you’ve followed the Magento 2 store configuration we’ve mentioned above, you must have successfully created your second store in Magento 2. Next you have to set values for MAGE_RUN_TYPE and MAGE_RUN_CODE which you can do by applying the following code in your index.php entry point: <?php $params = $_SERVER; $params[\Magento\Store\Model\StoreManager::PARAM_RUN_CODE] = 'yourcode.yourdomain.com'; $params[\Magento\Store\Model\StoreManager::PARAM_RUN_TYPE] = 'website'; $bootstrap = \Magento\Framework\App\Bootstrap::create(BP, $params); $app = $bootstrap->createApplication('Magento\Framework\App\Http'); $bootstrap->run($app); ?> Now make sure you Save your index.php file. After doing this you have to set the values in .htaccess file. This section here discusses the process through which you can set values for MAGE_RUN_TYPE and MAGE_RUN_CODE for using Apache Server Variables SetEnvIf or RewriteCond. To setup SetEnvIf, you have to add the following in your .htaccess file after “RewriteEngine on” this: SetEnvIf Host .*example.com.* MAGE_RUN_CODE=yourcode.yourdomain.com SetEnvIf Host .*example.com.* MAGE_RUN_TYPE=website To setting up RewriteCond, you should add the following code in your .htaccess file after “RewriteBase /magento/” This: RewriteCond %{HTTP_HOST} ^(.*)example\.com RewriteRule .* – [E=MAGE_RUN_CODE:yourcode.yourdomain.com] RewriteCond %{HTTP_HOST} ^(.*)example\.com RewriteRule .* – [E=MAGE_RUN_TYPE:website] Now again Save your .htaccess file. Conclusion Congratulations! Now you have successfully configured multiple stores in Magento 2 and you can get started with it. I suggest since you’ve worked so hard configuring it, it’s integral that you host it on a secure and best ecommerce hosting platform. So that you get the best security, and your cart’s abandonment ratio remains below the danger zone at all times. So, let us know which hosting platform you are using for your ecommerce business in the comment section below and if you're satisfied with it. Today, we will learn how to display custom category listing block in Magento 1.9. In the end of this tutorial you will be able to create a custom category list and display it in the left panel of your Magento theme. Create Category.phtml File To Show The Category Listing. Go to the template/catalog/navigation and create a (.phmtl) file. I have made the process simple for your understanding and created the file with name 'category.phtml'. You can create a file with your own name. For this tutorial, we will be using 'category.phtml' as the file name. Write the following code in category.phtml: Today, we will learn how to display custom category listing block in Magento 1.9. In the end of this tutorial you will be able to create a custom category list and display it in the left panel of your Magento theme. Create Category.phtml File To Show The Category Listing. Go to the template/catalog/navigation and create a (.phmtl) file. I have made the process simple for your understanding and created the file with name 'category.phtml'. You can create a file with your own name. For this tutorial, we will be using 'category.phtml' as the file name. Write the following code in category.phtml: <?php // get first level categroy children $cat = Mage::getModel('catalog/category')->load(2)->getChildren(); $catIds = explode(',',$cats); ?> <ul> <?php foreach($catIds as $catID): ?> <li> <?php $category = Mage::getModel('catalog/category')->load($catID); //display category name echo $category->getName(); //get subcategory $subcats = Mage::getModel('catalog/category')->load($category->getId())->getChildren(); $subcatIds = explode(',',$subcats); ?> // only display if sub-category exist <?php if(count($subcatIds)>= 1 ): ?> <ul> <?php foreach($subcatIds as $subcatId): ?> <li> <?php $subCategory = Mage::getModel('catalog/category')->load($subcatId); //display sub-category name echo $subCategory->getName(); ?> </li> <?php endforeach ?> </ul> <?php endif ?> </li> <?php endforeach ?> </ul> The above code will list the category and subcategory of the catalog if it exists. Now, we have to call this code somewhere to display it. Navigate to the layout of your theme. Find the 'catalog.xml' file and edit it. Look for the option “Default layout, loads most of the pages”. This acts as a global scope and it is usually displayed in most of the pages. Find the block <reference name="left"> [Note: You can add this to any location you want. For this tutorial, we will display it in the left panel. So, just before the block ends </reference> add the following code: <block type="catalog/navigation" after="cart_sidebar" name="catalog_category" template="catalog/navigation/category.phtml"/> Tadaa! you are done. You have created the custom category listing block which will be displayed on the left panel. For any queries feel free to comment below. The above code will list the category and subcategory of the catalog if it exists. Now, we have to call this code somewhere to display it. Navigate to the layout of your theme. Find the 'catalog.xml' file and edit it. Look for the option “Default layout, loads most of the pages”. This acts as a global scope and it is usually displayed in most of the pages. Find the block <reference name="left"> [Note: You can add this to any location you want. For this tutorial, we will display it in the left panel. So, just before the block ends </reference> add the following code: <block type="catalog/navigation" after="cart_sidebar" name="catalog_category" template="catalog/navigation/category.phtml"/> Tadaa! you are done. You have created the custom category listing block which will be displayed on the left panel. For any queries feel free to comment below. We have all heard and witnessed that Magento comes with some predefined tools which are intended to secure your store from SQL injections. Yet the security researchers have found some vulnerabilities, which can potentially cause harm. What is the nature of the Attack? The vulnerability consists of compromising a chain of liability which allows malicious injections and unauthenticated attacker to execute random PHP/SQL codes on E-commerce websites. In layman’s terms, this allows the attacker to bypass all your security mechanism, then get the access to your store and the whole database. It lets the attacker then create a new admin account in your existing one, or lets them access and steal critical information like credit card etc. There are many other harmful things that SQL injections can cause to your Ecommerce business and your store’s customers. What is of more concern is the fact that this attack is not limited to any specific plugin or theme. It is present at the core Magento and it ends up affecting any default installation of community and enterprise editions both. What to do to be Protected? The Magento team issued a patch for fixing this problem, there was a lot of hype about code flaws discovered which were leading towards the exploitation. The security research community considered and viewed it as a very important concern and developers were given time to create a patch while users were given time to do the application of it. The details were then made public to help the other users and to make sure that the Magento community widely was aware of what was happening. Unfortunately, after conducting further research and doing a detailed study researcher revealed that many web companies still have a lot of security concerns. There are nearly about 100,000 stores which happen to be still vulnerable. There have also been incidents of attacks which are used wildly against websites that have not implemented the patch till now. What we advise is being a Magento store owner, you need to apply the relevant patch right away. You can easily find and apply this designed patch SUPEE-5344 which is released by Magento and can be found on this link: https://www.magentocommerce.com/download Final Thought We advise that, unauthenticated user or any attacker who can exploit the vulnerability and run the arbitrary PHP/SQL code on your Magento store to have full access to your store’s complete database and also any sensitive customer information needs to be taken care of immediately! Because unless and until your Magento website is patched, it is sadly vulnerable and can be exploited by offenders. If you are unable or don’t know how to implement the patch, then leave a comment below and we will be happy to guide you through the whole process ☺ Arpatech: Bartek, you are a Front End Developer and specialized in Magento. How did you start your career? How long have you been involved with Magento? What was the reason for choosing this eCommerce platform? Bartek Igielski: I started doing Web related stuff in 2008, when I was 16, by doing a simple HTML and CSS page for my family company. Then was few other pages, I was in technical college with IT specialization, so at all a spend a lot of time on solving various issues, working on my web and design skills (yeah, I though about being a designer), getting more and more familiar with programing, often even replacing teachers on their duty :) At second class we have apprenticeships and I spend this time working in my friends company as a guy assembling systems of industrial automation. They were pleased with my job, so I spend whole vacations working. After third class, I tried to catch some freelance web project, but I failed and spend most of the time in the same company. After the fourth year of school and graduation, I have long vacations (4 months) before college start and decided to work in the same company, but... things changed. I started working as a guy in the office, who cares about various IT things. But then raised up a great project - we are going to create SCADA (Supervisory Control And Data Acquisition) based on web technologies and I’m going to be a Web Designer / Developer here! That’s how I created my first RWD project (it still works!) in 2012. Right after that, I start my quick episode with college. I don’t like learning not necessary things, so after a year I quit, so probably I’m never gonna say “Trust me, I’m an engineer” :) In 2013 I started my first full-time job as a front-end developer. I was working on Rails-based web apps and it was my first time with eCommerce solutions, on SpreeCommerce. After 8 months I was forced to change this job, because my boss wasn’t a solid guy. And that’s how in April 2014 I started my work at Snowdog - without PHP, JavaScript or even Magento experience. So unfortunately I didn’t choose Magento, Magento choose me :) Arpatech: You have worked on several different projects, you are master-mind of Frontools and SASS based Blank theme projects. Can you please tell our readers more about it? Bartek Igielski: Let me give you a quick history lesson - Magento 1.0 was released in 2008. In 2014 they released 1.9.1 with “RWD” theme, which refreshes state of front-end in Magento, but we thread this just as a temporary solution before releasing Magento 2. Magento 2 was released at the end of 2015, but unfortunately, it doesn't fit needs of front-end developers. That’s why we, as a Snowdog, decided to change this on our own, but also release as a free open source modules ready to use. Frontools are set of tools for the front-end developer to based on Gulp.js to simplify and speed up development. SASS Blank theme is a translated form LESS version of build-in Magento 2 “Blank” theme, with some necessary modifications and simplifications. Our actions were noticed by community and Magento executives. They announced us as a community leader of “Moving from LESS to SASS” project and now we are working together trying to find out a way to improve the state of front-end of Magento 2. Arpatech: What was your motivation for choosing a career as a Front-end Developer? Bartek Igielski: I just like working on the edge of technology and design, being a link between two worlds. A few years ago I found a Saul Bass quote that really well describes my relationship with front-end “I want to make beautiful things, even if nobody cares.”. Arpatech: Bartek, you have vast expertise in front end development. Please share some tips to the readers regarding front-end development and choosing a career as a front-end developer. Bartek Igielski: Front-end technologies are the one of evolving fastest in IT world. Every year we have a new JavaScript framework, styles processor, some new features in browsers, new screen sizes, new input types… it’s just evolving. If you like constant learning and care at least a bit about design, it’s right place for you. BTW. JavaScript is future, now even NASA is using it to monitor space missions! Arpatech: What is the best project you are engaged with or have done in your entire career? What are the challenges you faced and how you tackled them? Bartek Igielski: It’s hard to choose one project. Creating software processes, so everything evolves over time. I’m still believing that *this* project wait for me somewhere in future. Arpatech: You have giving presentations in Magento Meet-ups and conferences. Recently you presented on “Moving Magento 2 from LESS to SASS” in Meet Magento 2016. Can you please highlight the key points? Why is SASS more effective than LESS? Bartek Igielski: SASS is way more strict language, it will not let you hurt yourself or your teammates writing weird code. Things like the global scope of variables, ability to chain mixins or lack of proper conditional statements and loops hurt. It’s hard, to sum up this topic in few words, so I’d advise you to watch the recording of my talk at #mm16de. Arpatech: You are engaged with Magento conferences and meet-ups. What do you gain from these conferences? DO you recommend to attend such conferences? Will you be willing to attend more conferences in the future? Bartek Igielski: I like sharing my ideas and knowledge. Preparing to talks is always the best way to push yourself to learn new things. Attending at conferences is always a great thing, every time you will learn something new or heard for the first time about a cool solution for your problems or just stay updated with current state of Magento development. It’s also a great place to just talk with other devs. For sure, conferences are almost always great :) Arpatech: You will be presenting on “Improving State of Magento 2 Frontend” in the upcoming Meet Magento 2016. Can you please highlight some key points for the readers? Please tell readers about the best practices involved when working as a front end developer? Please give some suggestions to newbies on front end development. Bartek Igielski: I’ll be talking mostly about templates and styles part. We are working on establishing the solid naming methodology because currently is one of most frustrating part of working with styles in Magento, but it’s normal, naming things is always hard. Advice for newbies? Remember that somebody will read and edit your code in future, so please try to not make them cry :) Arpatech: You have a goodwill in Magento Community, your contributions have made improvements in Magento World. Who are your inspirations in Magento community? Please tell some names to the readers who they can follow to learn more about Magento front and back end development. Bartek Igielski: For me, real open source spirit in Magento Community is still in early phase of development, we can easily count all useful modules on our hand's fingers, companies still decide to build everything just for own purposes instead of sharing solutions. State of Magento front-end never was so great, it’s always behind the current state of technology, mostly because of long development cycles, not so frequent releases and complexity of the whole system. That’s why I always try to take inspirations from outside, limiting just to own, well known “neighborhood” isn’t so good when are you looking for improvements. Arpatech: Apart from work, you are a technology freak and also likes music. Which technology fascinates you the most? What is the genre you prefer in music? What do you do in your free time? Bartek Igielski: Nowadays everything is tech, I just love to track how things are designed and build. I’m in love with Elon Musk ideas - electric self-driving cars, self-sustaining housing, solar power and of course Mars colonization plans (I’d love to live here), this guy is amazing. Mostly I’m listening to metal-related genres like power metal, symphonic metal, heavy metal (I’m in love with Powerwolf), but right now I’m also making a quick flashback with trance music. It changes over years so much and I’m just stay with good old classics, like old episodes of Trance Around the World and the State of Trance. In free time I’m an XC bike rider (still thinking about switching to Enduro...), craft beer drinker, gamer and just a lazy man :) Are you annoyed by spreading negativity about your brand and need a magic trick to enhance your brand reputation? Or have you ever tried Googling your company or products like the following search queries: “BMW Reliability Ratings” “McDonald’s vs KFC” “Samsung S10 Reviews” Were there times when you got all sweaty with the negative comments, negative reviews or low ratings? It’s time you considered improving your brand reputation by opting for the best reputation management services. Undoubtedly, there are many effective ways to manage your business’s online reputation. While there are many online reputation management tips for local businesses, here are the two most important. 1. Claiming Spots on Digital Assets: (External Assets) a) Social platforms: First, search your brand name on all social media channels including the following; Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube Snapchat b) Business Directories: (Local, National & International). Register your business with genuine information on all directories like: Local.com Yelp Crunch Base Four Square Yola Yellow Pages c) Promotional Activities (Reviews & Ratings): If already created, then work on promotional activities and show some positivity on a page. Ask your customers and even employees to leave some healthy reviews and return the favor by offering 1% discount on the next purchase, giveaways or a happy family meal to an employee ? 2. Internal Assets Utilization a) Portfolio & Testimonials (Badge of Honor): Firstly, build the portfolio and create case studies to showcase some authoritative projects to your audience. Also, get testimonials from genuine customers on relevant projects and display them as a Badge of Honor. b) SEO Boost: Include keywords related to your brand reviews and ratings. Optimize it by earning some quality links from authority sites. c) Blogging Helps: Maybe one of the best ways to keep your audience engaged is blogs. They are, to put it simply, a magic wand for search engine optimization, and an engaging and cheap tool to engage your audience. Ways to increase and improve your customer reviews In the world of internet marketing, testimonials and product reviews are the greatest sales tools. More than 70% of consumers say they look at product reviews before making a purchase and closely 65% suggest they are more likely to purchase from a site that has product ratings and reviews. To boost your customer reviews, you should always place your reviews front and center. Also, you should continue to follow up on the buyers and ask the right questions. Since users posting good reviews can be potential customers, you should try and get in touch with them. But it doesn’t mean you leave out those who are critical of you. Instead, take it as a blessing in guise and an opportunity to fix your shortcomings and always contact those who leave you negative reviews. How to Completely Optimize Your Google My Business Listing Google My Business (GMB) is the free tool from Google that helps entrepreneurs manage their online presence across the search engine and its rising range of services. It offers the utmost effect for brands looking for local exposure. Features like Google’s Local Search results further highlight the need for a GMB listing for both new and well-known businesses. Google’s Knowledge Graph also uses confirmed Google My Business information to help produce details for its database about companies and entities that are pertinent to particular searches. Conclusion If you need professional help with online brand reputation management, then simply contact Arpatech and let the experts do their job. Given the breakneck growth in the diversity of online space, building feature-rich custom web development apps has become a hugely complex phenomenon. Unlike previously, it has now become increasingly difficult to satisfy customers with a mere online presence as you want to be seen technologically updated. Nevertheless, the problem can be overcome if your developers are well-conversant with the best frameworks for web application development. Given the copious availability of some of the best custom web development frameworks in the market, finding the right one can be quite challenging for your next development project. By the same token, hiring talented and qualified website developers can be another big challenge for many business owners. In this piece, we will discuss the top custom web development frameworks leading web development service companies are using, allowing you to get quality work within less time and cost. 1. Laravel Built by Taylor Otwell, Laravel is one of the best frameworks for web application development, which is dedicated to developing web applications by using the model–view–controller structural design and based on Symfony. This follows the MVC architectural pattern, which is elegant and simple. In addition to providing ORM, routing, and manageable verification, the framework employs a method that is implemented with a dedicated dominion handler. It is more like syntactic sugar and helps in the application support and action. 2. Ruby on Rails Based on the Ruby programming language, this is one of the easiest web frameworks which works on Linux. Besides giving programmers excellent coding conditions, Ruby contains an MVC architecture with which programmers can attach their code for representations or illustrations in a shared context. It has in-built security- reliant functions and applies a kit of add-ons before the release of the web app. It also includes everything essential to build a database operated web application, utilizing the Model-View-Controller model. 3. Django Django is a remarkable web framework that helps create elegant web applications. Designed to satisfy active changing deadlines, it meets the challenging demands of skilled Web coders and is employed by many web development services. The best thing about this framework is that it is a high-level Python web application evolution framework that gives an exact and rational outlook to the database operated websites. It is based on the Model-View-Template (MVT) design, which lends it strength and allows elements to plug-in quickly. 4. Meteor Meteor or MeteorJS is a great web framework which provides an extremely method to develop real-time mobile and web applications. It allows for quick prototyping and delivers cross-platform (Web, Android, iOS) system. Its cloud program is known as Galaxy which massively examines actions, scaling, and monitoring. It is an amazing JavaScript framework comprised of a collection of archives and packages put together. The framework requires much fewer codes which minimize the number of bugs. This framework is especially beneficial for e-commerce web application evolution. 5. Flask Extensively used by professional web development services, Flask is one of the most successful and vigorous Python web app development frameworks. A classic web framework for operating web applications through diverse devices, it has Unicode-based maintenance and great documentation. Applications that use the Flask framework include Pinterest, LinkedIn, and the community web page for Flask itself. While Flask has no database abstraction layer, it supports extensions that can add application features as if they were executed in Flask itself. Extensions exist for object-relational mappers and are updated far more frequently than the core Flask program. 6. ReactJS Highly useful for developers, ReactJS creates plenty of easy web applications due to its capabilities of JavaScript library. It is a modern web development that enables re-utilization of the current code and implicit DOM which is responsible for the user-friendly activity. ReactJS, which is great at the configuration and debugging systems, is amazing to handle in an authentic development condition. It works well with JSX and simultaneously constrains injection attacks. React enables developers to build interactive user interfaces while making it easy to compose simplistic views for each element in any application. It also effectively updates and provides suitable elements when the data changes. 7.Phoenix (Elixir) Operating with Erlang’s Virtual Machine, Phoenix is one of the most effective backend development frameworks that produce high-end utilization of resources. It can efficiently handle an extensive number of users at one time thanks to its fast speeds. Like Ruby on Rails or Python’s Django, it is framed in Elixir and accompanies the MVC model on the server front. The best thing about this framework is that it reduces latency meter and boosts the implementation of an API set. 8. Spring Created by Pivotal Software, Spring is the most prevalent application development framework for business Java, with many companies and programmers worldwide using it to build high-end Web apps. Spring helps build handy, compact, sturdy and resilient JVM based systems and applications. A Model-View-Controller framework that uses Java, Spring also maintains a bunch of associate designs that boosts its performance. It focuses on the pipe of business applications, enabling organizations to concentrate on application-level custom reasoning, without unnecessary links to specific deployment conditions. 9. Play Formulated in Java and Scala, Play is a cutting-edge web application framework that accompanies the MVC design and seeks to enhance coder productivity by utilizing code over arrangement and demonstration of errors in the browser. It gives predicted and minimum resource depletion (CPU, memory, threads) for deeply accessible applications, using an adequately asynchronous model developed on top of Akka. The compiler and runtime (JVM) do the huge scaling so that the apps work quickly and keep working under any kind of pressure. 10. Express Due to the immense traction, Node.js has gained, Express is fast becoming one of the most sought-after frameworks. World’s leading technology companies like Accenture, IBM, Uber and more are using it in other frameworks as well. A minimal, quick and high-end framework, Express offers some essential framework functionalities without concealing the features of Node. While it’s also quite flexible and supports full applications, the biggest setback of Express is the fact that there’s no clear way of doing things, especially for beginners. A large number of web frameworks of Node.JS are built on Express. Also, building a rooted API with an Express web app development framework is also extremely easy. 11. Vue.Js One of the best web frameworks, Vue.js is an open-source JavaScript library for increasing user interfaces.Vue.js is flexible and is capable of providing high-level single-page applications. First delivered in 2013, it is now one of the genuine web development frameworks in the world. 12. Yii One of the best open source web development frameworks for PHP, Yii works amazingly in creating applications for systems in which repetitious processes are required to be applied. The Yii programmers understand Rapid Application Development (RAD, enabling users to get web applications working within a very shorter time. Also, with the Yii framework, it also becomes valuable for users to modify their applications as per the conditions. 13. ASP.NET A web development platform, ASP.NET provides complete software infrastructure and numerous services mandatory to build up to vigorous web applications for PC, as well as mobile devices. Built on the Common Language Runtime (CLR), ASP.NET enables programmers to write ASP.NET code using any supported .NET language. 14. AngularJS Another progressive web app framework, AngularJS is an open-source web application tool that helps extend the HTML syntax for web applications. It streamlines the front-end development method by developing an accessible, readable and animated environment. Completely free, AngularJS is an open source and is used by many developers the world over. 15. Zend Framework Executed in PHP 7 and licensed under the New BSD License, Zend Framework is an open source, object-oriented web application framework. A framework is essentially a group of specialized PHP-based packages. The framework uses numerous packages by the use of Composer as part of its package dependency managers. What is App Store Optimization? Android store optimization is the system of enhancing a mobile app’s visibility in an app store. App store optimization (ASO) is a simple but crucial way of influencing application downloads. After you are done making your app which is fully functional, easy to understand, and according to your standards, it has a real place in the market. But remember it’s not going to be a success immediately. Acquisition of users can be a challenge for marketers of apps. The real problem occurs when no one is downloading your app. According to Statista, the total number of apps on Google Play is around 2.6 million as of December 2018. The field is too complex to get users to your app without the help of a few app store optimization tips. How to optimize your mobile app for Android app stores? How to improve ASO? What can be done to improve your app downloads? Are the questions that comes to the mind of people. So, here we are going to share app store optimization strategy and help you with optimizing your mobile applications. Keep your app free to download There are many free ways to boost your app downloads; free applications receive much more downloads than paid applications. A free app can help you reach the initial traction swell. This initial push is critical for the acquisition of the first users and the positive reviews are necessary for consistent growth. You can use a handful of app monetization strategies to drive revenue once you’re off to a solid start. For instance, In-app purchases, Subscriptions, Premium features etc. Optimization of android store App store optimization (ASO) is the system of enhancing your product page’s visibility and quality within the app store. So, how to optimize your Google Play store app details? One must follow the Google Play app description guidelines before making an app go live. Keep in mind that to be successful requires a sustained effort. While rankings of app store rely on metadata — such as keywords, description, ratings, and reviews — there is more to ASO than that. You also have to consider how each app category ranks keywords and other smart Play Store optimization tips. Make sure your app is crash-free Your app should be tested vigorously to enable your developers to identify and resolve any potential bugs before making your app publicly available. There are numerous app store optimization companies that offer a pro-active approach in this regard to avoid any negative reviews. Collect more reviews Positive reviews online can make a curious reader a user. Reviews are beneficial in convincing users that your app is useful and reliable enough to download. Moreover, positive reviews help make your app rank high in the Android app store. App review plugin It is not always easy to get reviews, though. Rather than hoping for reviews to roll in, use an app review plugin to encourage more reviews. Influencer marketing is a must Marketing influencer is all the rage right now. It is not a new thing, but it has become a highly effective marketing tool due to the extensive use and reach of social media. Social media never gets old Social media platforms can indeed be effective tools for engaging a new crowd’s attention and helping you build a successful online community. It is a proven way to build communities and expand brand recognition. Content Marketing You can help reach more potential users by creating compelling and relevant content to promote your app. It may be in the form of articles online, sponsored content, videos, or infographics, though it all depends on the consumption habits of your audience. Use app listing services App discovery platforms are like an app listing site where you come across tens of thousands of users accessing the website. All you need to do is to be creative in choosing the best service that matches the offerings of your app. It is an incredibly simple, efficient and popular format. Offer giveaways Get potential users to market your app for you through a giveaway or contest. You can give away prizes to users that download your app, share your app on social, leave a review or talk about the app in certain circles. How should I promote my Android app to get more downloads? Since the majority of users find an app by searching on the Google Play store or iTunes, it’s significant that you rank in the top apps for a specific query. In order to rank well you need to do App Store Optimization (ASO), and to start with it the right keywords to enhance your app detail page must be found. In addition, you must promote your app on pertinent forums, blogs, tech blogs, which would help improve your app rankings. How to increase organic mobile app downloads Compared to keywords and screenshots, developers barely spend sufficient time enhancing their app icon. App screenshots are vital to get organic app downloads because this is what users first see in the search results. It goes without saying that the most crucial asset on iOS are the screenshots. On Google Play, 85% of visitors won’t even see your screenshots; instead, they focus more on the feature graphic and brief description. Also, App ratings and reviews are important because nobody wants to download or subscribe to an app that they do not find useful. All top-grossing apps have great reviews and high ratings. ASO Tips to Increase Organic Installs First of all, work on your ASO, which means improve conversion rates and boost organic installs. The more traffic your app store listing has and the higher your conversion rate is, the freer installs you get. The second most important tip is that you should use the right keywords in the right places. Once you have selected the right keywords, use a mechanism such as TheTool’s ASO tool to evaluate them. Choose the ones that are less difficult and bring more traffic simultaneously, before putting them together in the right places. Every change must be measured to bring improvement. So, you should run A/B tests to improve metrics. Your key objective should be to rank high and to have an appealing listing in the app store, else the conversion rate of your app or game will not be the ideal. Don’t focus on one single country. Avoid restricting your application’s scope; go global if you can. After all, you may find a demand for your mobile app or game from the US, France, or maybe Brazil. In the Magento Community, the influencers have played a major part and done a lot of contributions. From back end to front end development to community engagement, they have all managed to make Magento a better platform. These are some Magento influencers who have contributed to the development of Magento Community. Ben Marks Follow @benmarks Ben Marks has a good reputation in Magento Community. Being an expert in Magento development he helped developers understand Magento. He has an exposure of 6 years of Magento Development and 3 years of training at Magento U. Ben is dedicated professional and always respond to queries. He's a great source of information on Magento and PHP. He is also known as a Magento developer, educator, and an enthusiastic community member. Whether you are a newbie or a professional of Magento, he is the right person to follow for all your queries and concerns. Alan Storm Follow @alanstorm Meet Alan Storm, he is a source of practical Magento tips and bug fixes. He is an experienced e-commerce professional and creator of Commerce Bug. Alan is the author of No Frills Magento layout, a complete guide for newbie and professionals of Magento. He is active in Magento Community and loves to share his knowledge. If you want to know more about Magento, start following him today. Vinai Kopp Follow @VinaiKopp Meet Vinai Kopp, Freelance Magento trainer, Developer, Consultant and Author. Vinai has vast years of experience in web-development. He started developing Magento modules. He is the aurthor of Grokking Magento. Besides loving Magento Vinai like sport and is passionate about travelling to different places. Vinai is also a known speaker for topics related to Magento technicalities. He enjoys exploring projects. He is a great source of information, follow him to stay updated and learn about Magento. Kimberely Thomas Follow @magentogirl Meet Kimberely, a Magento wizard! With an experience of over 15 years in developing and managing web applications, she has gained an expertise in architecting Magento solutions for her clients. The best thing about Kimberly – unlike most of us, she finds working under pressure, rather comfortable. Doesn’t matter how close the deadline seems to be, Kimberly and her teammates know how to deliver a high quality product that goes easy on their clients’ pockets and ensures them the immediate satisfaction! Kimberly also takes time out from her busy schedules for events that would help her enhance Magento architecting skills, such as #PreImagine, Meet Magento NY and also the monthly Magento Meetup in NYC – she makes sure she never misses out on any of these! Sylvain Rayé Follow @sylvainraye Meet Sylvain, a computer Engineer and Magento Community enthusiastic. He has a strong background in the domain of Web Development with experience of more than 10 years. He is also engaged with Magento for more than 6 years. His experience with the community leaves no question about his abilities. He is the founder of Diglin GmbH in Zurich (Switzerland), a company providing extensive development of eBusiness projects. Sylvain is a Co-organizer of Meet Magento Switzerland. He is a board member of German magento Community, Firegento. He is often invited as a speaker at many conferences around the globe and even helped in organizing various hackathons. Thomas Fleck Follow @fendi911 Meet Thomas Fleck, founder, and CEO of Netresearch. He is a multi-talented professional and also known for his multi-domain knowledge. From Entrepreneur to lawyer and idealist with over 15 years of working experience in the eCommerce sector, Thomas has an essence on different working environments. He is the initiator of Meet Magento – the leading event of Magento Community around the globe. He is well known among Magento Community. You must follow him to stay updated in the Magento World. Kalen Jordan Follow @kalenjordan Meet Kalen Jorden, founder of magemail. He is engaged with Magento over years aind has contributed immensely to the Community. Kalen is the founder of Mage-Mail, an easy to setup plugin for Magento which saves time, money and helps to stay in touch with customers. Kalen actively participates in the Magento community. He is the co-host of MageTalk- a Magento community podcast. If you want to get yourself updated with latest Magento trends then you must start following him. Tim Bezhashvyly Follow @tim_bezhashvyly Meet Tim, an active Member of Magento Community. Tim leads Magento team at 21sportsgroup GmbH. He is a certified Magento developer with over 7 years’ experience of Magento Development and over 17 years’ experience in PHP development. He is active in StackExchange and other forums. Tim has been presenting in Magento Conferences and has published several articles. His main specializations are Magento Eco System and adopting Magento site for Mobile devices. He is a dedicated person. He is a great source of information. Piotr Kaminski Follow @piotrekkaminski Meet Piotr, an experienced Magento professional. He has been working with Magento since 2003 and have experienced different work flavors, from developer to sales engineer. He is an Ecommerce expert. Piotr has contributed his expertise in the domain of e-commerce Security. He is currently Lead Product Manager and responsible for Magento security and translation. Follow him if you don’t want to leave your website in the hands of a hacker. Rouven Alexander Rieker Follow @therouv Meet Alexander , founder and co-owner of ITABS SgR. He is an eCommerce and CMS specialist. He is a Magento expert and even deals with advanced PHP topics. He is well known for his PHP journals and solutions. He can be easily found on the internet and is always ready to help in any regard. If you want any good suggestion regarding eCommerce, you can always approach him. Marius Strajeru Follow @MariusStrajeru Meet Marius, a senior Magento developer. He is focused on backend development. He has been working with Magento since the version 1.0. Marius has created extensions for Magento Community. Marius is active on magento.stackexchange as he believes it’s a great platform to share knowledge. He is the moderator on magento.stackexchange since dec,2014. Marias have put great efforts in educating the community on Magento 2. He is the Magento Master 2016. He is active on Magento Stack exchange. You can learn a lot form this guy Anna Völkl Follow @rescueAnn Meet Anna Völkl, senior Magento developer at LimeSoda interactive Marketing GmbH. She is one the earliest Magento certified developer in Austria. Anna is professional Software engineer since 2016. She started her career with Magento in 2011. Since then she has contributed a lot in Magento community. Her contributions in Magento StackExchange/Mage stackDAy and giving talks on Magento events. Anna is Magento Master of 2016. She has contributed to Magento 2.x security. She is always engaged in Magento events and helped the community in organizing Magento-Stammtisch Wein and MagentoStackDay. She is always active on twitter. You can follow her and ask questions.She loves to share information Sherrie Rohde Follow @sherrierohde Meet Sherrie, Community Manager for Magento. Sherrie is one of the most famous people in Magento Community. She connects people and resources. She is engaged with Magento community. Sherrie was originally a Magento Developer, later she became Community Manager for Magento. She has a lot of resources to share. She co-produces a weekly broadcast for community professional which is known as #CMGRHangout. She is one backbone of Magento Community. To get involve in Magento Community, start following her on twitter Sander Mangel Follow @sandermangel Sander is Magento Consultant, Senior Magento developer and technical lead at FitForMe. He is also known for his enthusiasm in coffee and e-commerce. Sander is engaged in Magento Community and stays updated about latest trends. He loves to reach new people in the community. Sander is Magento Master for 2016. He organized Magento User Group Rotterdam and MageStackDay. He is the mastermind of translating Magento platform to Dutch. He constantly helps the community on Magento StackExchnage. He is one of the best sources of knowledge. To learn more about Magento, follow this guy. Conclusion The pillars of Magento Community are laid by the influencers of Magento. Magento Evangelist are always ready to contribute in Magento community. There are other influencers who contribute in Magento Community. I have covered them in my next Article. Feel free to share your views in the comments below. :) Love PHP? Or new to PHP? Don’t know where to get your hands dirty with PHP? Well! This article is all set up to help out the PHP developers in need. Doing PHP programming on PHP IDE is the best tool for PHP programming that you need to have. There are a lot of best IDEs available in the market. You can have paid and free IDEs as well; every Integrated Development Environment or IDEs have its own unique properties making them lovable to use. If you are starting to use PHP programming language as a newbie, don’t panic everything is under control, start doing it on a basic text editor like notepad. Or there are other better options as well like using NetBeans which is so easy to understand and to use that you can easily grasp the idea of dealing with it. Doing PHP programming using IDE is very easy for a PHP developer. Every IDE is unique with the ability to get used by any level of experienced PHP Developer. An Integrated development environment or best and shortly an IDE is the playground for the developer, and developers love to spend time upfront to select the best IDE to do PHP programming and that best fits all requirements. You must be thinking which is the best IDE for PHP?? Which text editor is best for PHP? Or which IDE is best for PHP development? The answers to these are certainly dependent on your need and level of experience and the Php development service that you can afford. Code Editors and IDE for PHP Development of 2019 To make your job a lot easier I am here to help you out by letting you know the features of best IDEs that are most widely used by PHP Developer all across the world. The best IDE for PHP development is: PHPStorm You must be wondering what's the best free PHP source code editor? So, the first one from the list of best PHP IDE for PHP development is PHPStorm and literally the best one so far. This platform is rich with the most modern set of features. All the features that you need to have while doing rapid web development. JetBrains is the real brain behind the development and marketing of this cool platform and other tools for about 15 years. And we developers don’t get enough of using their platforms and tools. Getting back to PHPStorm, it works well with all frameworks like if you want to work with Symfony, Yii, CakePHP, Zend Framework and other CMS like Magento, Drupal or even WordPress. Other than performing backend tasks, the front end is yet another most important thing of any project, PHPStorm has saved us a lot of time and energy. Yes! You are right you can do work on CSS, HTML5, Sass, Typescript, JS, CoffeeScript, Less, Stylus, etc. using code refactoring, debugging and Unit testing. This platform using Zend Debugger is easily integrate-able by databases like SQL and composers, vagrant, rest client, remote deployment and command tools. Netbeans So, you must have thought which IDE is best for PHP development? NetBeans is the answer. It is the most widely used IDE all around the world and the best PHP IDE for PHP development. This IDE has all the features that are rich, free and that supports multiple languages. PHP Developers are so over this IDE after it was released and one the biggest communities of developers on this open source IDE for PHP development environment. Previous NetBeans only supported Java language which was really slow, but now Netbeans works like a jet with almost many languages including PHP frameworks and WordPress CMS. Aptana Studio The development IDE that professional developers love to use for doing PHP development and is one of the best IDE for PHP development. When it comes to development, the best one is this IDE that supports SQL and other databases. Not only back-end development, you can do front-end as well with the support of HTML2, CSS3, JS, Ruby on Rails, PHP, Perl, and Python. Testing can also be done. All in one and you are covered! Download this open source IDE that have deployment wizard for RoR. Eclipse One of the most widely used IDE is Eclipse. Most of the Developers used this IDE for Java and Android development but now, the Eclipse community of developers are working on the plugins for another development language. As a newbie, Eclipse IDE can take some time to work on it as smooth as butter, yes butter! If you already have Eclipse installed on your system, all you have to do is download it and install Eclipse package for PHP developers. Eclipse can easily develop a PHP web application for your business. Zend Studio Another most widely used, and the best PHP IDE for PHP development is Zend Studio. Zend targets professional web developers has made this class commercial PHP IDE on the go with PHP programming. Over 40,000 Developers are using Zend Studio for development of PHP websites. It provides the fastest performance, validation while coding and searching the PHP Code, that is why developers love to use it. Now it is high time for mobile development, and Zend Studio is not behind of anything. You can also develop mobile app development on top of existing PHP apps and server backend. PHP Designer If you don't have windows operating system then skip this IDE and the idea to use it. It is also one of the best IDE for PHP development that PHP developers love to use to develop PHP websites. PHP designer offers the built-in support for PHP. Don't worry I haven't forgotten the front end developer, you can also work using JavaScript, CSS, and HTML using this IDE. Cloud 9 - Best PHP IDE in the Cloud If you want to use the Cloud 9 IDE to develop the PHP website, start using it using the free version of it. Cloud 9 is the most important and the best IDE to use if you are doing the cloud-based programming environments. For real-time code inspection for PHP, it offers built-in debugger. If you are using the free version then you will have two options, work either in public workshop or in the free private workspace. To use any other feature commercial version of Cloud9 is the option. Brackets Brackets is an open-source editor written in HTML, CSS, and JavaScript that focuses mainly on web development. It was developed by Adobe Systems, licensed under the MIT License, and is presently maintained by Adobe and other open-sourced developers on GitHub. Brackets are available for cross-platform download on Mac, Windows and are compatible with most Linux distros. The primary purpose of Brackets is to edit live HTML, CSS and JS functionality. Sublime Text It is another PHP development tool built to be a solid text editor for all – such as prose, markup, and code. It's amazing that Sublime text has a custom UI toolkit. Another interesting fact here is that it is cross-platform. Because it has the custom UI toolkit, it gives users with the ability to climb across words, symbols or lines using one of the particular key shortcuts. In addition, at any given time users can now make adjustments to any number of lines of code. Interestingly, it is one of the most customizable and malleable text editors that exist. Code Lobster Code Lobster is one of the most portable IDEs for PHP. It offers overwhelming support for a wide range of successful PHP frameworks and even CMSes. Some of the best CMS frameworks are CakePHP, Drupal, Joomla, Symfony, CodeIgniter, WordPress, and Magento. Programmers can write custom web apps in PHP, trying to insert them into innovative features such as autocomplete, syntax highlights, debuggers, SQL managers, code validators, etc. using Code Lobster. Moreover, PHP developers can actually enjoy a relatively large number of advanced features by choosing to upgrade to this professional edition. NotePad++ Notepad++ is a free source code editor (as in "free speech") and a replacement notepad that supports multiple languages. Running in Windows MS environment, its use is regulated by the GPL License. It is based on the powerful Scintilla editing component, Notepad++ is written in C++ and uses pure Win32 API and STL to assure higher execution speed and smaller program size. Through optimizing as many routines as possible without having lost user friendliness, Notepad++ is working to reduce global carbon dioxide emissions. The PC can throttle down and reduce power consumption while using less CPU power, resulting in a greener environment. PhpED PhpED is regarded as one of the robust PHP development tools available. Besides offering support for PHP 7.1, there is also massive support for CSS3, JavaScript, and HTML5. Web developers can work through some of the most commonly used PHP frameworks like Yii, Zend, and Laravel using PhpED. Choosing the latest version of PhpED is imperative as it will enable programmers to arrange PHP code locally and remotely as well. Because it comes with refactoring capabilities, it allows improvisation in coding to occur Atom Atom is yet another free, open-source text and source code editor for MacOS, Linux, and Microsoft Windows that supports plug-ins written in Node.js and embedded Git Control developed by GitHub. This tool is a desktop application that uses web technologies. Most extending packages have free software licenses and are community-built and developed. The tool is based on Electron (which used to be known as Atom Shell), a mechanism that uses Chromium and Node.js to allow cross-platform desktop applications. It's written in the CoffeeScript and Less. It may also be used as an integrated development environment (IDE). Komodo Komodo ActiveState is a PHP IDE which could be used as an international language development environment, providing Ruby, Perl, and Tcl Python. Using Smarty and Zend PHP frameworks, it can be installed. You can also use integration with version control systems (CVS, Subversion, and Perforce). Komodo supports Linux, Windows, and Mac OS X operating systems. It enables you to commence CGI Environment Simulation and build holodeck web server. It replicates activities on a real web server. Fast installation is one of the advantages of CGI Environment Simulation. Scriptcase It is one of the smartest PHP development tools if you plan to develop web-enabled apps. It helps to build connections with databases and generate reports. With the help of this software, you can switch from prototype to production phase in no time. Although the cost is too high, it may not be the best option for small businesses. It is, nevertheless, the best choice for mid-tier companies. Some of Scriptcase's functionalities include quick connectivity with major database engines, creating charts such as pivot tables, creating interactive reports while exporting common formats including PDF and XL. To make development even more convenient, here I am going to solve some of the confusions by answering the most frequently asked questions. Are there any online PHP code editor or IDE? There are lots and lots of online PHP editors on the market, but not all of them are reliable. Only some of them have the advanced features required. As per the developer's recommendation, best online code editors include CodeEnvy, PHPFiddle, WritePHPOnline, PHPAnywhere, and a few others to write/edit the code online. Which is the best IDE for JavaScript? I believe Webstorm is the best choice of among all the IDEs I have used so far. It has decent syntax highlighting, auto-completion, suggestions, error detection and what not. Aptana Studio can also be picked if you are looking for a free choice. Which IDE or Code Editor works for Laravel? The good thing is Laravel does not require advanced IDE or code editors. Therefore, any good editor or IDE will work for you, and it is entirely a matter of personal preference. Sublime and PHPStorm are generally a pleasure to use, and you will get autocompletion with Laravel façades with the Laravel IDE Helper. Which IDE or Code Editor should I use for CodeIgniter? Eclipse for PHP works very well with CodeIgniter. NetBeans is yet another good IDE, and Sublime is a great code editor for CodeIgniter. Which IDE or Code Editor should I use for WordPress? NetBeans, Eclipse, Visual Studio Code, Rapid PHP, Brackets are brilliant open source IDEs for WordPress development on the windows platform. The online community also provides a lot of help on these 3 IDEs. Sublime, Visual Coder, Notepad++ Editor are better options for WordPress development. Which IDE or Code Editor works best for Drupal? There is no particular IDE for Drupal development, but if I have to choose one, I will pick Eclipse PDT or Notepad++. You can also go with VIM if you are more command line oriented. Which IDE or Code Editor for Magento development? PHPStorm and Netbeans are successful yet influential, but the recently introduced new Magento extensions like Eclipse and Zend Studio is also handy and famous in the community. What is the best IDE on Mac? Atom for C++ since it is expandable and open source; XCode for iOS and Mac development. Which PHP IDE comes With Git support? Eclipse, Atom, and Komodo offer additional integrated IDE support for Git. Which PHP IDE comes with SSH support? Vim and Kate are the most preferred options for SSH Support. Which is the best and fast PHP Editor for Windows? I think NuSphere, PhpED. It certainly works well, it's fast and handles things pretty nicely. However, if you are looking for a free IDE, Netbeans should be your choice. Which Editor is used for HTML coding? Notepad++, Eclipse, and NetBeans are according to me the best editor for HTML coding. Eclipse offers multiple plugins in its open source web development tools kit. Whereas NetBeans is a free and open source IDE that offers code generators and templates along with project management tools. Conclusion After knowing the top best IDE to develop your PHP Websites as a newbie in PHP developer or experienced PHP developer in both cases you can use all these IDEs without any restrictions. These IDEs are not the only ones in the market obviously you can find much more that are both free and paid with the features that you want to use. But! selecting one from them is a difficult task. The decision of choosing one depends on your requirements of the website that you are building. Which one do you use to work on? Mention the name in the comment section below, Cheers!! The E-commerce leader Magento announces partnership with Adobe to transform consumer experience. This partnership was officially announced at Shop.org Retail’s Digital Summit event. This partnership is bringing powerful personalizing tool together with the flexibility of E-commerce suite which will be able to provide the shoppers more freedom and customization. The comprehensive content Management of Adobe Experience Manager (AEM) is providing solutions to build websites, mobile apps, and forms. This also enables you to manage marketing and content assets. The powerful capabilities of Adobe Experience Manager along with Magento Ecommerce platform will result in high customizations and personalized user experience. It will make buying and selling experience better than ever. The Partnership Will Provide Merchants With Following Key Highlights: Shopping experience: It will allow transactions anywhere around the globe. The integration fulfillment and customer engagement to the store. Enhance Personalizing: It will provide the customer with an enhanced shopping experience. It will increase the personalizing aspect greatly and integration between mobile, web, and your own retail store. Innovation and Business Agility: Providing the business, sales, and marketing with real-time information. The data will be more meaningful and will allow staying ahead of consumers demand. Command Architecture: It will give the customer more freedom along with enhanced digital experience. Magento and Adobe are creating a powerful platform to engage the shopper and give them a unique and enhanced shopping experience. The Magento-Adobe Partnership will definitely revolutionize shopping experience for every individual and that is something the e-commerce industry is looking forward to. In our last tutorial, we learned to display customized category listing in Magento. So, today we will focus on the easiest way to display products from a specific category on your website's Homepage or any other page. As we all know Magento is a powerful e-commerce platform that provides a sustainable solution to the e-commerce merchants. But, at times we get confused about what to display on the Homepage of our store in order to maximize our conversions and increase sales. So, we end up cluttering the page and buyer get confused with too much information overload. You might want to display a specific category that is in demand or range of specific products that your user would most likely purchase. So, let's get started with the process: From your Admin panel, navigate to Catalog-> Manage Categories Select the category you want to list on the Homepage and note down the category ID. Next, navigate to CMs->Pages Select the page in which you would like to display the products from a category. For this tutorial we will choose Homepage. Select content and click on Show/Hide Editor Write the following code: {{block type="catalog/category_list" column_count="4" category_id="4" template="catalog/product/list.phtml"}} The column_count here restricts the number of columns to be displayed. While category_id is used to get the specific category through its id. Now navigate to Systems->permissions->Blocks Click on 'Add new block' Now enter the block name. In our case, it is catalog/ category_list Select "Yes" from drop-down box IsAllowed and save the block. Now products from specific category will be listed on the home page. You can see this by going to the front-end of your store. So, today we have learned the easiest way to show products from specific Category in Magento. If you have any query, feel free to comment below: Matheus Gontijo is a hard working, respected Magento Software Engineer based in Curitiba, Brazil. Besides being interested in applying the best practices in his day-to-day work, he is also passionate about personal development, traveling and helping the community. He holds a degree in System Analysis and an MBA in Project Management, and he is certified by Magento as a developer and development plus. In this interview with Arpatech, Matheus shares how his career started and provide our readers with some of the most relevant insights he has been having since then. Arpatech: Matheus, you have vast experience in Development side. How did you start your Development career? What challenges did you face when you started your career? Share your first job experience with our readers. Matheus: I would like to start off by saying it is an honor to be interviewed by Arpatech. Thank you so much for the opportunity. I hope you enjoy the interview as much as I did! Initially, I started working in a company that had many short projects; they lasted around 2–3 weeks and most of them were HTML + CSS only. Later down the road, I started playing around with PHP, and I became fascinated with the idea of creating solutions through computer coding. These solutions could impact core businesses in big companies as well as make human life a lot easier. I instantly fell in love with the new world I had just discovered. Today, a few years later, I stop and look back at my journey. Understanding how the programming world works is an easy task now. However, it was very challenging on day one when I everything was still so new to me. There were way too many different programming languages, frameworks, platforms, paradigms, and methodologies to learn and I did not know where to start. I need to confess that I was confused at the time. I could head towards many different directions but, thankfully, I found Magento! Arpatech: Currently, you are working in Crimson Agility as Magento Software Engineer. When did you connect yourself with Magento? What was the thing that made you Magento Developer, when did you develop your first Magento project? Matheus: Right after I had started my career as a developer, I spent a few months devotedly studying PHP and OOP. I spend quite some time working on personalized projects based mainly on Zend Framework and a bit on WordPress. One day our salesperson brought us our first eCommerce project. We chose Magento for several different reasons, but I personally really like working with Zend Framework because of its beautiful code and flexibility. It seemed to me more enterprise-like as it was widely adopted by the industry. I began working with Magento in the mid of 2011. Our project basically consisted of creating an online store for a client that sells auto parts in a physical store. It seemed pretty simple at first and since I did not have any knowledge about Magento at that point, I had to do my research. I dove into tutorials, blog posts, discussion forums and so on. StackOverflow was a major help to help me come up with solutions for that problems I was facing at the time (and to this day it is still an important source!). If I could give any piece of advice for a developer who is just starting out, I would say that: It may sound a bit cliche, but if you want to keep things simple it is going to be easy and you can finish your projects relatively fast — it doesn't matter which method you use or what you do. However, the bigger your projects get the more experience you will need. You will have to understand the platforms a lot better (what do they offer? How can they be useful to your project and, most importantly, how to maintain them in the upcoming months or years). There's no magic trick, you will not get this experienced overnight so get familiar with the platforms you use and always seek for the best practices! I don't want to sound negative, but there is no point in calling yourself a specialist if you are not giving your best. Any other good Magento Developer should be able to complete, modify or extend the code you have written. Also, when you become more experienced things, the work you put into your career will pay off. You will be getting job offers from all over the world: Brazil (that is where I am from!), USA, Europe, Asia. Doesn't it sound amazing? I am currently working in Crimson Agility (an American Magento Solution Partner), and it has been a great pleasure. I am proud to be a part of such a talented team for over a year now. Together we have been collecting amazing experiences in Magento, and I am learning a lot. Thank you so much, guys! Arpatech: You are a developer very involved with the community. Which platform are you using to connect yourself with Community? Do you participate in the discussions of the Magento social communities? Which platform do you suggest to a newbie for learning and increasing their Magento knowledge? What's your advice for developers who wanted to kick start their career with Magento? Matheus: Yes, I have been talking basically with everybody I can! The top #1 breakthrough in my career was to understand the importance of being open to personal development. If you don't allow yourself to open to it, you will hardly grow. Can you imagine having the opportunity to get help from hundreds of thousands of the most awesome developers in the whole world? Take a look at the open source model: PHP, Zend Framework, and Magento could not be where they are today if it wasn't for hundreds of thousands of developers from all over the world working together towards the same goals. The more you expose yourself to improvement, the bigger you grow. Therefore, being involved is an intelligent decision, which undoubtedly will make you step out to the next level! Twitter: is a potential source. You will find the best people are there, it's unbelievable! You may follow the hashtag #realmagento and follow all of them. Blog: since you know who the best guys are, everything you need to is feed yourself with their content. Most of them have useful blog posts that may help you to discover things you may never heard of. StackOverflow: You can find out the most popular posts, tags and users, creating a special list of high level content. Events: I'll dig a bit more in the next answer. Stay tuned and on the last answer I will link some guys ;- ) Arpatech: You have been an attendee of Magento Developers Paradise 2016. Share some of the best moments from this event. How many Magento events are you going to attend in this year? What are the advantages of attending Magento events like Magento Imagine, Meet Magento, Magento Developers Paradise? How newbies increase their knowledge and connect themselves by attending these events? Matheus: What a great experience it is to attend these events! There is nothing compared to going out there and meeting up with awesome developers. I have been attending events as much as I can. Obviously, it is way easier to go to local events, to meet people who you are close to and create a near stable network. That being said, I started to expand my horizons in the past year or so, and I am trying to attend international events. I believe understanding the relevance to be connected with people is a key. They lead and give directions to the entire industry. You have to follow these big guys in the community! This year I had the opportunity to attend Magento Developers Paradise, which took place in Croatia. So, I came all the way down from Brazil to Europe. During those four days of intense networking, I could sit down with CEO's and CTO's from many different Magento companies (agencies, consulting, training, module creating, etc.). I also had the pleasure of meeting the best of the best Magento Developers who have years of wide experience working with the platform. I made many friends that work with Magento from literally all over the world. I was able to sit down in many different tables and have dinner with a lot of interesting people. I had the chance to talk about important topics that gave me valuable insights. Other than that, I have a funny story to tell! Is there anything better than to meet face to face with the people who answered very useful questions on StackOverflow? That happened to me during Magento Developers Paradise! I was having several issues with a module I was working on and a German developer helped me a lot. He said the module I was working on was obsolete and he gave me other useful alternatives. It matched perfectly to what I was looking for. Can you guess who I met in one of the parties of the event? Yes, Simon who had helped me so much, ha! He was amazed to hear me tell about how I had accomplished my goals in that project based on his instructions. His advice helped me save time and it allowed me to do things the best way possible. That was just one of the many great things that happened to me in that event. I will be flying to the Netherlands in the next few days in order to attend to Mage Unconference. This conference — I mean this unconference — will have a different format. No predetermined talks or agenda, there will be just a panel for discussions in which the present attendees will come up with questions, share thoughts or comment on whatever they want to talk about. That's going to happen full time during two days. So, look for a local Magento meetups in your city or state/province. If you can't find anything, maybe it's time for you to start doing one! But, please, don't keep going alone any longer. Arpatech: What do you expect after the release of Magento 2? What's your expectation with Magento in coming years? Do you think merchants can increase their sales with Magento 2? Matheus: To be honest, I didn’t play around with Magento 2 very much. However, I do believe it is a significant accomplishment. It is not a new platform for the future, it's a platform for now. During its ~8 years, Magento has been constantly improving and a major release was, in fact, needed to be made since it became "old". The highlights of M2 are usage of Composer, Dependency Injection, jQuery, and support for Tests. Finally the core team published the platform in GitHub and have been receiving pull requests from any developer. The most wished thing has eventually happened: contributions from the community have already merged into the master branch! I wouldn't say merchants can increase their sales just by adopting M2, considering it doesn't rely on the platform alone, but the set of all areas (design, usability, marketing, analytics & etc). The platform has a considerable part among them and yes, by making M2 part of it, the impact certainly will be positive. Arpatech: Magento uses modules and extensions. Name some of the most important extensions that you recommend to use with every Magento website? Matheus: Every single Magento store has its own particular rules, consequently it makes my job hard to answer this question. In a general perspective, my shoot for every Magento store would be: OneStepCheckout or FireCheckout - Default Magento checkout is great and works very well, however, OSC brings a straightforward manner to accomplish sales. Customers love it. AOE_Scheduler - Provides an advanced system to better manage cron scripts AOE_Profiler - Breaks down the profiling process! Arpatech: Matheus, let's put Magento aside for a bit and talk about your personal interests :) I follow you on Facebook and I saw that you love traveling. Which sport you like most? How you spend your time besides work? Matheus: SOCCER! As a good Brazilian I'm unfathomably passionate about soccer! Soccer is part of Brazilians' Religion hahaha! To be honest I have been neither watching nor playing it as much as I would like to lately. But during Saturday's morning I’m leading a Soccer Group in my neighborhood. Young guys from 13-21 have the opportunity to play, laugh, have fun with each other, and - the most import part - to listen a brief Bible reflection for the coming week. It’s not something big, but I may confidently tell you, it's making a huge difference in their lives. Besides work I like to hangout with friends: picnics, parties, and traveling - it's wonderful! Arpatech: Every one of us likes to follow some influencers. From whom do you get your inspirations? Name some Magento influencers who have inspired you with their work. Matheus: Alan Storm: I started my career finding so much this guy on the web. Alan has been doing a great job on his posts. Marius Strajeru: If there is anybody more influent than this guy on Mage StackExchange, for sure I don't know. Thank you so much Marius. Fabrizio Branca: Deeply knowledge in how the machine within Magento works. Fabian Schmengler: Awesome StackOverflow answers! Ben Marks: This gentleman has been running the marathon of traveling the globe to connect the most effective Magento guys from all over. Also, he is a pretty good person! Do you want more? Go to StackOverflow User Reputation and find out the best of the bests! By the way, feel free to follow Matheus on Twitter: Follow @mhgontijo Rebecca has been a designer, developer, and a secret poet. She is famous for her love for Magento. She is the devoted and passionate member of Magento community and currently working as a Project Manager at iweb. Today, we got the chance to interview her and talk to her about her experiences with Magento. So, let's get started! Arpatech: Rebecca, you are a young professional and Magento Specialist. Our readers want to know your motivation for choosing Magento Platform and working for Magento community. Rebecca: I came across Magento very early on in my career which I am so glad about because it has meant I have been able to focus my efforts on what I believe to be the best eCommerce platform out there with the best community behind it! Sure Magento drew me in and I love working with it, but it's the passion from the huge & amazing Magento community that has kept me here. Arpatech: Rebecca, you are serving as a Project Manager at iWeb. I have been engaged with some courses of Project Management and I love this field. Please share your experience as a project Manager and delivering Magento solutions to clients. What are the most frequent concerns of client? Rebecca: Many moons ago I was a developer at a smaller agency which didn’t have any Project Managers and so I had a very mixed role of managing the clients and projects as well as developing and building the sites. I attended a conference in 2014 called DPM:UK, recently rebranded to DeliverConf, and was truly inspired by the speakers and attendees there that were immersed in digital project management! So much so that I decided to focus and take on my current role as PM with the awesome team at iWeb. In terms of concerns I have, generally, I try to keep them to a minimum. The projects we take on are high pressure and mean so much to the clients involved that when things go wrong it can be hard not to take it personally, but you just have to pick yourself up and keep working hard! Arpatech: As you say in your blog that you never heard of Magento before 2013. What took you to this platform? What was the motivation for choosing Magento as your career? Rebecca: I have always had an interest in eCommerce but as a 20-year-old junior developer, I was just excited to be working on any web project and so being given the opportunity to work on large online shops using Magento was thrilling! I picked it up quickly and it wasn’t long before I was no longer considered junior. I have been just as passionate about the platform ever since and will continue to push its and my own development! Arpatech: Rebecca, you are active Magento community member and run Magento YouTube Channel. Can you suggest newbie some tips to stay connected in this community? Is it really difficult to be part of the community? Rebecca: My biggest tip would be to put yourself out there! I know it's scary and difficult to do but the Magento community is a friendly one who are always looking for new talent! I recently wrote an article about my feelings when I was first joining the community and where I am now: Being a Magento extrovert is challenging. Just remember you are not alone and we all started as a stranger to each other. I still get nervous when interacting with the community, but my passion outweighs my fear (just about) so I will never let that stop me. Arpatech: You are working as a project Manager and you are very close to Magento products. Many developers are still working on Magento 1 and most of them have not even thought of switching it. Why Magento 2 is still not famous among developers? Rebecca: It is just not as well-polished as Magento 1 yet. Developers are having to learn on the job, are facing barriers and big changes with every new release, but officials at Magento are listening to the feedback from everyone using the platform and are pushing to improve the experience for developers. Unfortunately, it is just a waiting game at the moment and we are a little bit in limbo. Arpatech: Being a Magento specialist, you love to write. Please guide our readers about the best practices of writing a blog. Rebecca: Oh gosh! I do love to write but I am far from an expert and so all I can tell you is the approach I take and that is to be myself. I write my posts how I would say them, I use the same tone of voice and vocabulary as I do in my day to day life which I hope helps my writing come across more genuine. It seems to be working! Arpatech: Let’s talk something about ecommerce store. We see a lot of competition in this sector. Please give some suggestion to our merchants on how to sell their first product online. What can they do to stand out of the cluttered online market? Rebecca: It is such a competitive sector. Especially with the ease of getting set up online now, it is hard for even those in the business like myself to keep up! I would have to recommend not trying to go alone. The world wide web is a big place with experts on every niche you can think of! Rely on these experts to help you and learn from, be it for development, marketing, or customer service etc. Social media is also a huge thing for businesses that I truly believe should not be ignored or taken for granted. No matter who your target market is, I can almost guarantee you they will be using social media in some way or another. Arpatech: I searched for your interest in photography and found some amazing clicks. Your passion seems quite interesting. How did you start as a photographer? If you get a chance to choose photography as your career, what will you do? What else do you prefer in your spare time? Rebecca: I have always loved being behind the camera rather than in front of it. I appreciate everything on this planet and believe everything and everyone is beautiful and that’s what I love to capture. I did do a college course on Film and Television production too, so when I think of the ways my career could have gone, I like to think I could have been a director on a big fancy movie set! Haha. Tobias is a designer/developer and a Magento enthusiast. He is currently working as a Magento Front-end developer at Sitewards. In this interview, Tobias shared his valuable insights regarding Magento and development practices. On a casual note, he even told us about the best places he has visited and shared his passion about hiking and trekking. So, let's get to know him more and start with the interview: Arpatech: Tobias, you are a front end developer of Magento. What is the best thing about front end development of Magento 2 version when compared with version 1? Tobias: I would see myself as a front end developer who is currently working with Magento. For me, this is because I’m more into CSS, SASS, LESS, HTML, JavaScript and not so into XML and other Magento specific templating. The best thing about Magento 2 Frontend… well, that’s a hard question, and we should see it from different angles. If we see it as the Magento System, compared to Magento 1, Magento 2 made the Framework very complete by adding “modern” front-end techniques like LESS processing, RequireJs, a Grunt workflow and some more interesting additions. By that, we could say the way how Magento 2 works with LESS is a quite interesting approach, and by integrating RequireJs and Jquery in the framework they did a great job. For the Magento ecosystem, a complete framework or environment can also be considered as a very good thing, I guess. If we now see it as a front end developer who already worked with the newest technology like SASS, post CSS, etc., maybe within Magento 1 and had an established framework like foundation or bootstrap, there is no such best thing. Magento 2 kind of reinvented the wheel by building its own complex framework, using older technology like LESS and added additional complexity on top of the common workflows. For me, what I also discussed in my talk on Meet Magento Netherlands this year, the Magento 2 framework is a very interesting one with all that additional complexity. But it seems not ready yet, not shaped enough to become a framework people love to work with. There are a lot of smart ideas behind its complex workflows and with the power of the community, this could become a very very powerful. The only Problem, in my opinion, the community will most likely not go deeper into it, since we frontend devs already have a lot of complex things running and particularly want to get rid of them if you see nowadays discussions on tooling and the front end workflows. Means, the one “best thing” is not yet there but together, the community and Magento, could build a more attractive, modern tool chain for front-end developers. Arpatech: Magento happens to be the most popular ecommerce platform. What guidelines will you give to a newbie of Magento about front end development? Tobias: Can I say, try something different then Magento? Ok, just kidding. :-) The power of Magento, in my opinion, comes with its awesome community of smart people. So what I did and would do again is, first get your hands dirty by hacking into the system and make everything wrong you can, then take one of the Magento trainings to learn how to do it right and third, register in the slack channels, visit Magento Unconferences, find the people on twitter and start to communicate. Be a part of the Magento world and you’ll have superpowers for your work with Magento and for yourself as a developer. Arpatech: What is the best project you have been engaged with so far? What motivated you to choose Magento as a career? Tobias: I don’t have a single “best project” but a couple have stood out to me. To me these were the most interesting and helped me to learn a lot about coding for e-commerce and Magento and were mind blowing. One of these was a configurator for a scooter, based on Magento. The first challenge was how we were going to realize this since the product types within Magento did not reflect everything that we needed. There were core parts to the scooter but also additional parts, colors, sticker and insurance. So we made a plan on how to fit all these into the Magento available products. After we sorted the product type the decision was made to use a complete javascript configurator front end. We wrapped our minds on how to build a flexible but performant API from Magento to the javascript configurator and a fast and animated front end. This consisted of Requirejs, Backbonejs and Marionettejs. For me this was a great combination of interesting techniques with a nice and flexible result. Can we choose Magento as a career? I didn’t do so, I have chosen e-commerce, frontend development and public speaking as career and Magento as the framework I stick to. But thinking about, what would make me choosing Magento as the career, I would say the community. The community of a framework is such a big motivation driver. Within the Magento community, there is a lot of potential for frontend developers. What I really enjoy is that it is a very open minded friendly community with a lot of very great people. I might repeat myself on that topic over and over again but a community is one of the most important parts, it decides if a framework will stay alive or will die and it is by far, in my opinion, one of the biggest motivators for a developer to stay with a certain technology or framework. Arpatech: You have a vast experience in Magento development.Can you recommend the top 5 free themes and extension available for Magento 2 and Magento 1.9 respectively to our newbie developer? Tobias: As we did not play that much with Magento 2 I can’t point you to extensions but what I really like is the SASS Theme from Snowdog (https://github.com/SnowdogApps/magento2-theme-blank-sass). So if you start with Magento 2 either take that SASS Theme in the beginning or take some time to investigate deeply how Magento 2 frontend framework works. For Magento 1 there are a lot of cool and helpful extensions out there, so I give less direct extensions but more of an advice where to search. For building a bootstrap based boilerplate theme I recommend the Webcomm Bootstrap Boilerplate. A lot of good and helpful extensions are from firegento, so check their GitHub repositories. People involved in the firegento group also have a lot useful extension, which you should check. It is also very beneficial to check out some Agencies with love for Magento, for example, IntegerNet who developed a Solr extension as an example, or AOE and Firebear Studio, who do a lot of extensions and have helpful Articles. And for sure you should check out Lizards & Pumpkins for the catalog. Arpatech: We all have some mentors and inspirations in our lives. Can you name some people in Magento community who inspired you or whom you admire? Tobias: Yeah, let’s start with Ben Marks, I really like to hear him talking on stage and I think he’s a very great and inspiring speaker. Since I started now with talks as a topic, I want to name David Manners too, who gives, the funniest and impressing talks also, he is a great developer with a very nice pragmatism on how to solve problems. So if you want interesting talks which drive you crazy (in a good way) and keeps you thinking, then you should talk to David. I also gain a lot of motivation and inspiration from Fabian Blechschmidt, who counts for me to all those great persons on Stage, too. Since the Magento community mostly consists of PHP developers, don’t judge me on that, I can’t tell names about inspiration on coding. Here I have to go out of the Magento community and name people like Harry Roberts for CSS coding, Gregor Martynus for JS-Coding and community work; I just realize that I can name a lot of people here because there are so many who can inspire in so many different ways. Just keep your eyes open and you’ll find inspiration and motivation everywhere. Arpatech: Since you are a front end developer, can you give details of some useful front end features of Magento 2? Please guide our readers about the best practices to follow while working as a front end developer. Tobias: The Magento 2 framework has a build in living documentation on its stylesheet components, unfortunately, this applies not to changes made within themes, but at least there is something for all the base components and for the base theme. I don’t know if it is useful in the current state of implementation but also the override less file technique can give a lot of power and flexibility, on the other hand, it makes the standard less process very complex. When It comes to less, the use of guard methods can help a lot, which was a good move to make the components better adjustable. The way we deal with the media queries is also an interesting idea, although, I don’t like the actual implementation. Depending on media queries and guard functions, there are several CSS files created, such a styles-m and styles-l where we have screen size dependent sheets, which should make loading the page a lot better. One of the problems currently is, that all small styles go together with styles marked as common into the mobile stylesheet, so at the end, the mobile stylesheet is the heavy one, which doesn’t make much sense. But anyway a really nice idea for modularizing things and only load them if necessary. Since I did not work on a project with Magento 2, and for me, the front end feels not ready, I can’t suggest the best practice yet. I’m watching how the system advances and there are already a lot of changes in it currently, so everything I say might be already too old. The only I could tell is something general, so if you work with a new huge framework like Magento 2, make sure that you know your tools. The best practice is either to use the framework completely and its powers or deactivate it, don’t try to just blindly make override files or try to build a theme, based on the Magento 2 given themes, without knowing what and how to do, there is no such thing then simply changing variables. Arpatech: Since I follow you on twitter, I have noticed that beside your professional career, you happen to love climbing. What are the best places you have been for climbing expeditions? Also, do you love hiking? What else do you prefer to do in your free time? Tobias: I love hiking nearly the same as much as climbing because you can explore most beautiful areas which you otherwise never would see. Besides that, there is nearly no way to climb outside without hiking since Mountains are mostly unreachable directly from a street or parking place. The best places so far were in Mallorca, Austria and Croatia. Mallorca is so awesome for hiking and climbing, you would never expect that this tourist overcrowded party island can be such a nice place. For example, pack your things for deep water, solo climbing and head out to Cala Sa Nau. You can hike along the south-east cost to that wonderful place, it is a small beach with great but not very hard climbing routes, starting directly from the beach. In evening hours, there might be a DJ on the beach pub, playing electronic sounds while you climb along the coast. It’s so amazing, especially in the evening hours. If you’re interested into pictures about those places continue following me on twitter or better on Instagram (https://www.instagram.com/toh_82), a couple of days ago I posted some views from Lake Garda Italy. My other free time is usually spent on sports like functional and crossfit training, hanging out with friends, chasing the best Beer and Coffee in town or while playing blizzard’s Overwatch. So, if you’re in Frankfurt or I’m near you, just drop me a message, I’m always in for Beer or Coffee. Magento is one of the leading e-commerce platform in the world. Most of the big brands in the world use Magento for their e-business because of its flexibility, reliability and open-source nature. Nowadays, online businesses that are using other ecommerce platforms are migrating to Magento with rapid pace because of it’s powerful inbuilt functionalities and rich features which continue to evolve, and the best bit is that it’s the only ecommerce platform that is genuinely driven by a community of great developers. Along came Magento 2… Just when the world was realizing the true potential of this powerful ecommerce platform, in the end of 2015, Magento released it’s new version “Magento 2” which turns out to be a phenomenal update and in some ways a more advanced version than its predecessor. Magento 2 is powered by PHP framework that really puts a developer’s life to ease. Listed below are some of the New Features of Magento 2: New structure Full NGINX support Redis Full page cache Varnish cache CSS preprocessing CSS and JS Minification Catalog images caching Code generation Requirejs for improved JS performance Session storage management XML validation Best Development Practices in Magento 2 Now, beside the other ecommerce development platforms, Magento 2 specifically is a bit technical and requires advanced development skills. So, a lot of the developers get stuck while in the development process and then they seek expert’s advice from the Magento Community. So, we thought, why not directly ask from the experts that in their opinion what are some of the best development practices in Magento 2 and which approach is the best. So, mentioned below are the responses that we got from Magento Developers which can really help anyone who’s just getting started in Magento 2 or even an advanced developer can learn a trick or two. So, here it goes: Marius Strajeru Magento Master 2016 The official docs and reverse engineering. That's all I've used so far, and magento stackexchange of course. Tobias Hartmann Lead Frontend Developer at Sitewards About Magento 2, as I said in the interview, we don't know about a best practice. We tried to get information about it from conferences and by asking people but there are a lot different opinions about it and I personally think that this is a problem. Such a big framework should give solutions to that and to the modern workflows and should not raise such big questions. So far what we did in a magento 2 project we applied overrides on the frontend styles and switched classes within the templates but did not use the ui lib, how it should be used, because it appears to be too complex. And for sure, as Magento says by its own, don't base on the Luma theme because it might change completely. The base should be the blank theme. Since the snowdog scss theme is on a good way I would prefer this for upcoming magento 2 projects. Bartek Igielski Front End Developer at Snowdog - Write everything as a module and keep semantic versioning - Magento (front-end) codebase isn't great, remember to follow best practices, not their code standards (i.e. use BEM or other naming methodology, use SASS, ES6...) - Do code review for every chunk of code and run automated tests - even simples checks using linters (ESLint, SASS-Lint, Stylelint, PHP_CS) - Report bugs and contribute to Magento project - it's open source, so if nobody reports a bug or propose some solution, probably it will not be fixed or changed. Vinai Kopp Trainer, Developer, Consultant I'd say, "Decouple your code as much as possible from Magento 2 implementation details, or, if that isn't possible, be conscious about the coupling. Wrappers for core classes are a good thing. Also develop with Varnish as the FPC in mind, so don't think every request will reach Magento. The built in FPC behavior is different and code that works with it can't be assumed to work with Varnish." Sean Breeden Magento Developer at Jamersan Not sure if anyone else covered this or not but here's my 2 cents on a good place to start with best practices: A simple recommendation that I can make for working with Magento 2 is to adopt the same coding standards that Magento is using if you aren't following them already. For years, I worked on projects that required fast turnaround times so it caused me to lose focus on the importance of adhering to standards. Quality suffered and my progress seemed to stall out. It wasn't until I started strictly following coding standards again that I saw significant improvements in my ability to write good code. Magento recommends following the Basic Coding Standard and Coding Style Guide when creating extensions. There's a lot of common sense things in there that any developer can use to improve. Not only will your code become easily readable, it may have a possibly surprising side-effect of increasing your skills! Basic Coding Standard - http://www.php-fig.org/psr/psr-1/ Coding Style Guide - http://www.php-fig.org/psr/psr-2/ Daniele Rutigliano CEO Ecommerce manager at Aproweb web agency First of all it is necessary to analyze the needs of commitment and the features of the project. In some cases Magento 2 could be not right version and there are not knowledge and plugins to fast use. At the second you have to install your ecommerce on test server. As with Magento 1.x you have not edit the core software but to use the override way. At the end check the log files and resolve ALL bugs and errors: your Magento will be faster. Riccardo Tempesta Co-Foundeer, CTO at IDEALIAGROUP srl Fighting against Magento 2 coding can be an hard work and it requires good programming skills and framework knowledge. There are good practices you can follow to achieve a good result. With “good result” we mean a better stability, a shorter coding time and less headaches. We wrote down 10 of the most important rules in the Magento programmers life: Rule 1. Never start coding Magento 2 without knowing at least a bit of Magento 2 framework theory. Magento 2 is one of the most complex framework in the world and exploring its code without knowing where to search can be really frustrating. Rule 2. Always follow Magento 2 coding guidelines, because you will not probably be the only one working on your code. Remember: “Always code as if the guy who ends up maintaining your code will be a violent psychopath who knows where you live.” Rule 3. Magento 2 requires a lot of additional coding but it is based on simple and clear concepts, so if it is too complicated then probably it is not the right way to do it. Rule 4. Do not waste your time and use tools like “MSP_CodeMonkey” or “MSP_DevTools” to automatically write boilerplate code and debug your application. They are free while your time is not. They do not make mistake while you can. Rule 5. Use the right IDE, we use PhpStorm with Magicento2 and xdebug integration. They save you a lot of time. We know it is not cool as programming with “vi”, but we are in 2016. Rule 6. If you do not know how to do it, then look at Magento source code. Magento code is often a source of inspiration when you are approaching something new. Rule 7. Write integration tests and test units. Upgrading a Magento version can break some of you custom modules or third party modules and integration tests can save your week-end. Rule 8. Always use git to version your code, use an automated deployment tool like capistrano and use a local virtual machine for development (vagrant or docker can be good tools). Rule 9. Be careful when using third party modules, someone did not correctly understand rule number 2. Before using them in production take some time to explore their code and make sure they are ok. Rule 10. You do not talk about Fight Club. So, there you go! Magento Developers and experts have shared their experiences regarding the Best Development Practices in Magento 2. Now, you might agree or disagree with the methods stated in it, and that’s perfectly fine. As I said before, Magento is a community-driven platform, so everyone is welcome to share their experiences. If there’s anything you’d like to share regarding development practices in Magento 2, feel free to share with us in the comments section below. There are different ways of adding a static block to your CMS page in Magento. We all know Magento offers the following handles for CMS pages: Homepage and 404-page handle Handle for all CMS pages To display the block only on home page, we will use homage handle on our local.xml file. If we need to display the same static block on all CMS pages then we will use a handle for all CMS pages respectively. Let me first explain the CMS static block for those who are unfamiliar with it. The static block is a powerful feature in Magento admin, and it allows the admin to control chunks of HTML and CSS that can be displayed throughout your website. They are perfect for seasonal banners, displaying charts, graphics and much more. What is the need of these blocks while my developer can work it out? Your Magento website must be configurable as much as possible so that anyone with a few CSS and HTML chunks can work on different parts of the site. Easily manage banners, images, text and seasonal sales. While your developer can focus on more crucial tasks. So, let’s begin with creating a static block and showing it in the CMS Page: From your admin panel, Navigate to CMS-> Static Blocks Click on Add New Block Enter the Block Title, 'Identifier' and set the status to Enable. Block Title: The Title Of Block That You Will See. Identifier: The identifier of the block that will be used to call it to CMS page. Click on show hide editor and add any HTML you like. You can add any image, text or links that you want. For this, we will write a simple text that will be linked to a page. Write the following code: <p style="color: red;">I am a red Block <a href =http://www.arpatech.com target= ”_blank”> Go </a> </p> Click to Save Block Now from your server navigate to \app\design\frontend\ theme\template\page Note: Instead of theme, the name of folder will be related to your theme. In the following folder, find 2cloumns-left.phtml file and use any of your preferred editor to edit it. For this tutorial we are using 2cloumns-left design. If you are using some other design then edit the related file. Open the file and find the required div class in which you have to attach the block. The best way to check the class name is: Go to you page. Right click on anywhere you want to show the static block. Select Inspect Element. A code window will open. See the desired div in which you want to attach the block. Now go back to the file and find the required div. In my case its <div class="main"> In my case its <div class="main"> Add the following line right under the div: <?php echo $this->getLayout()->createBlock('cms/block')->setBlockId('myblock')->toHtml() ?> I have included the block under <div class="main">. You can place it anywhere according to your need. Open your page. You can see the new block listed. Now you can create your customize blocks with images, texts and much more. I hope you enjoyed the block. Feel free to ask us anything regarding the tutorial in the comments section below. Learn how to display products from a specific category in Magento. First off, we would like to give a huge shout-out to all the attendees of the very first “Magento Meetup Dubai” because without your active participation, this event couldn't have been this successful. Arpatech is now officially the first company to host a Magento Meetup in Dubai, and we are overwhelmed with the immense appreciation and positive feedbacks that we have received from the ecommerce community along with the tech community around the world. Now, before we delve into details, let us first explain the reason that what actually compelled us to organize an event of such magnitude in Dubai. Well, the reason was fairly simple. We realized that there was a huge gap between the ecommerce community in Dubai- specifically in Magento. And as Dubai is one of the rising business cities in the world, the ecommerce industry simply couldn’t be ignored. As Meetup is a great way to build communities, so we invited Magento developers and related key figures in the ecommerce industry to share their knowledge with each other and make meaningful connections that can be productive for everyone. Magento Meetup Dubai Summation: The session started with a series of talks and discussions around: Advantages of Magento 2 and why it’s beneficial for Merchants Magento and it’s great ecosystem Magento platform and its reliability Smart ways to get involved in Magento Community Stats and overview of Magento 2 The Speakers of the event: Ben Marks (Magento Evangelist at Magento inc.) Wajid Hussain (Magento Community Manager at Arpatech.) Matheus Gontijo (Magento Software Developer Crimson Agility.) Muhammad Ali (Magento Certified Developer Plus at Sky Telecom Group.) Rajendra K Bhatt (Magento Certified Developer at Citruss TV.) How the Community responded towards Magento Meetup Dubai: The First Ever @magento Meetup Dubai. Thank you @benmarks @ Ali and @mhgontijo for the wonderful session.#realmagento pic.twitter.com/rr1WmvYrka — Adnan Fasih (@adnanfasih) October 30, 2016 .@mhgontijo talking to us live over Skype about the #MagentoEcosystem at #MagentoMeetUpDubai pic.twitter.com/P7K3KHXrcF — Redbox Digital (@redboxdigital) October 29, 2016 Thanks to @benmarks for join us remotely in #magentomeetupdubai#realmagento pic.twitter.com/sbvmSK2EzA — Wajid Hussain (@wajidstack) October 29, 2016 Glad I remembered about my presentation to the Dubai Magento Meetup tonight. Heading for dinner at 6:30. #mm16ro — Ben Marks (@benmarks) October 29, 2016 Let the fun begin! #magento #dubai #realmagento @arpatech pic.twitter.com/L6Z8uJd8iu — OneStepCheckout (@onestepcheckout) October 29, 2016 What’s More in Store? Well, Magento Meetup Dubai will go down in the history books as the first Magento Meetup in Dubai and we would once again like to congratulate the participants as together “WE HAVE MADE HISTORY!” But we are just getting started and are already working on some REALLY BIG PLANS right now. On that note, we would request you all to stay tuned, follow us on facebook, twitter and LinkedIn so that you can get to know about the details related to our next event. *Note: You can become a part of our next event: Launched in 2003, WordPress has become by far the most popular content management system (CMS) in the world. More than 74 million sites are currently utilizing WordPress to deliver new posts every second. Let’s Start by Defining What CMS is...... WordPress is a simple and free content management system with numerous features and ample customization possibilities making it the best CMS for small businesses in 2019. It can be used to develop any kind of website, be it for a small business or for a large enterprise. It is known to be the best CMS for website development. Because of its numerous benefits, CMS has become a buzzword in the world of web development. An acronym for Content Management System, CMS is designed to help users create and manage their websites. A CMS assists webmasters in managing the many various resources, types of content and data that make up modern websites. Modern websites use HTML, CSS, JavaScript and images (jpeg, gif, png) to create web content for visitors/readers. At the root of each CMS is the ability to organize these resources and generate valid content that web browsers can read. Why CMS is Beneficial for Your Business Nowadays, businesses need a drive for WCMS, regardless of how small or big your business is. Choosing the best CMS for your website can be a daunting task. So, let us first enlighten you on why your business website needs a CMS and what a good CMS should have: Easily accessible from almost anywhere A CMS enables website content to be accessible virtually from anywhere, using whatever computer device connected to the Internet. It is a very useful feature and becoming increasingly important nowadays to be capable of working remotely and on-the-go. Everything is under control Rather than just depending on an external resource, you are in control of a CMS with the ability to assign tasks and responsibilities and monitor progress anytime. It therefore, puts you at the driving seat of this important business tool. It saves you from browsing into hundreds of pages of code or contacting the third party, waiting for them to enforce certain changes and also having to pay them for their jobs. Access to Multiple Users Many businesses may want input from a range of users onto their website. The CMS allowsadmin users to give access to certain user groups, handle roles and publish permissions so that each individual gets the adequate level of control over the website. Feasible for All-Size Businesses CM platforms deliver simplicity, flexibility, scalability, and a cost-effective solution for digital marketing, which can be more affordable for any small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), but also for individuals. It makes it possible for any organization to readily put content on a website that allows to attract more revenue and traffic to their site. Allows Simple and Quick Design Changes You can also improve the look of your website from a CMS. The content and design can be revised autonomously from each other, whereas the website remains fully operational. CMS helps users to simply switch custom themes or modify the design of website elements to suit the design of your website. If you haven't yet switched to WordPress CMS, read the following 15 reasons why WordPress is worth switching for. 1. Safe and secure Because WordPress is such a famous CMS, the fact that it is a target for hackers should not be surprising. WordPress takes its users ' security and safety very seriously, though. While you can exercise some standard security measures such as not downloading from an unreliable site a theme or plugin, WordPress is constantly updating its software to prevent attacks. In fact, since the release of version 3.7, WordPress has an automatic update feature. 2. SEO Friendly WordPress was invented, while keeping the search engines in mind. The most popular search engines actually prefer WordPress-enabled sites because their frame is easy to crawl. By providing you with a strong foundation, it can grant your small business the peace of mind when it comes to ranking. Google’s Matt Cutss also has his personal blog on WordPress. 3. Improve Website’s Speed Search engines often take the speed of the website into consideration when ranking a site. Unlike WordPress, however, traditional websites are too heavy and time-consuming to update, which could invariably impact the speed of your site (To check your website speed on google). By using WordPress as a CMS, you can not only improve the speed efficiency of your website, but also reduce the bounce rate, which can actually benefit your SEO, PAID and other social campaigns. 4. Highly Customizable Due to the thousands of plugins and themes offered by WordPress, you can customize your site to appear and function as you want with just one click of a mouse. In addition, due to the endless number of features WordPress has to offer, you can create the website or blog you've always wanted. Customization is yet another important CMS features. 5. Free to Use Whether it's a business website or a personal blog, it doesn't matter, WordPress doesn't charge anything. It is absolutely free which is a major incentive to use it. If your site starts getting more traffic than you anticipated, they don't charge extra. Besides being free, WordPress is also open source so you can change or improve your source code as you like to customize and you can also look at the functionality of your website. 6. No Hassle – Ready to Use You can start using WordPress as soon as you install it, unlike other content management systems. Apart from the customization you give your theme, there is no configuration required, as well as the plug-ins that suit your interest. Almost all of the things you're looking for coming with the installation like social media feeds integration, comments, etc. 7. Manage Content Conveniently It should be easy to create and edit the website. WordPress is that framework which enables you to easily create websites without having to write codes and scripts. It is an open source CMS that denotes the ability of the public to use it and does not need experts or specialists. WordPress's best thing is that it's available for free. You can easily select different website attributes. After proper understanding and installation, various themes and plugins can be selected. It does not specifically need any specialist or experts; this open source CMS can be easily used by the public. 8. Immediate Content Publication Apart from handy content management, WordPress can also be used to publish content immediately. If you've got the WordPress app on your smartphone or tablet, you can easily post content anywhere, anytime. 9. Easy to Deal With As mentioned earlier, for security purposes WordPress is integrated with an automatic update. However, when there are updates for your themes and plugins, WordPress also notifies you. This makes it a lot easier to manage your WordPress site, as you will always be up to date with the latest updates. This will keep your site fresh and safe. Hence, your site will remain safe and updated. For updating plugins and themes, all you need to do is click the checkboxes beside items you want to update and then strike the update button. The key is to remember to check for updates, and that's why the auto-update option is so useful. 10. Add up Functionalities Later You are not constrained to the same theme or functionalities with WordPress as you did when you created the website. If a startup website decides to add more features and functionalities to the website, it can be done quite easily with WordPress. An efficient team of developers continues to update the platform's features, enabling users to introduce more dynamism to their websites. Furthermore, as the website gains customer attraction and attention, it can be upgraded later if needed, without any trouble. 11. Keep Your Site Updated & Fresh You can change the design of your site whenever you need either via WordPress or on third-party sites. Whether you need to update your theme since you've had it for too awhile or you're looking to take benefit of something like the festive season, there are hundreds of free themes to choose from. By giving your website a fascinating look keeps your company fresh and exciting in the minds of the people. There are many built-in themes and plugins that make it impossible to create websites accordingly. A startup owner with a little knowledge of CMS can set up a website using WordPress without hiring any developer. 12. Integration with Social networks Unlike other web site design, WordPress can have a major influence on the social media strategy of your website. WordPress provides instant integration of various social media accounts via widgets & plugins. Using their own social network accounts, users can easily post stuff on your site. It makes it pretty convenient for people on social media to find and connect with you using accounts they already have. Also, it enables you to manage all social activities from a solitary unit, whether it's posting content, leaving comments, or adding images. Consequently, letting you to promote your product or service easily in a consistent manner that will help in building your brand. Hubspot, PayPal, Stripe, Freshbooks, Xero are among the most popular services that can be integrated with your WordPress. 13. Designed for Delegation Apart from bringing so much ease, WordPress comes with built-in user section that makes it much easier to delegate access to new users depending on the level of access it is applicable to assign. Hence, the entire team can use WordPress. For example, if you choose to give access to your developer, they may require admin access to the website's source code. It isn't the same level of access that your company’s blogger will require, and as a result you may wish to assign a lower level of permission. 14. Integration with Powerful Platforms WordPress integrates with several popular third-party platforms to give your business that additional boost. If there has been a service that you would like to integrate with your website, there would likely be a WordPress plugin, or at least an easy-to-use API. There are a lot of plugins that allow you to simply send email campaigns and newsletters. There are plugins which enable you to accept credit card payments for an e-commerce site. Precisely, WordPress has plugins for just about every type of function you wish to add to your website. 15. Not Just Limited to Blog post Publication WordPress started as an optimal platform for blogging, but now most individuals and businesses are utilizing WordPress as a website. WordPress comprises of post and page structure; you can have everyday blog posts along with static pages such as your Contact Info or About Us pages. Whether it's a personal blogger or a large/small-scale business, WordPress suits every business and can be used to create any kind of website, either for a business, a non-profit organization or a simple personal blog. Summing Up Why WordPress is the Best CMS for small businesses in 2019 Now that you know what WordPress is and what advantages it offers, you would be able to comprehend why it is the best CMS for developers or small businesses. As a small-scale business owner, saving time and money is crucial for you, and WordPress offers both. WordPress is the easiest open source CMS for website. WordPress is certainly almost always your safest bet. If you haven't switched to WordPress yet, the 15 reasons above should offer you enough reasons to switch to WordPress. At times, the default Magento settings may seem too basic or could potentially lack the functionalities you want to have in your online store. Well, don't worry, because, with little tweaks in Magento, you can make it work like a charm for your business. After all, we all want to create custom attributes for our desired brand to give it a personal touch, and that's what this whole article is all about. So, let’s get started with the basic attribute settings in Magento that can help you manage your products accordingly. Adding Product Attributes Go to Catalog->'Attributes' and select 'Manage Attributes'. Click on 'Add Attribute'. Now, let’s name it “design”. You can use any other name that suits your work. Set the scope to 'website'. For this tutorial, we are making a drop down attribute for the product. We don’t need unique value, so we will set it to no. Now, we need the user to fill the value before proceeding. Set the values required to Yes. Set input validation to store owner to none, as we don’t need validation for this attribute. Now, select “Selected Products Type” in Apply To section. This is as we are only using this attribute in simple product. Select Simple Product. Now, let’s set some front-end properties. Set Use in quick Search: It is the search bar of your Magento website. We set it to 'yes' so as to allow user to search for this attribute. Advance Search: It is the advance search for your Magento store. We set this property to 'yes' so that the attribute is available in advance search. Comparable on frontend: When customers are comparing products, would you like your attribute to be shown there? Select to 'yes'. Use in layered navigation: We set it to no as we don’t need it in the layered navigation. Use in Search Result Layered Navigation: We set it to yes as we want to show in search Result of Layered Navigation. Use For Promo Rule Conditions: If you want to use this attribute for promo or discount deals then set it to 'yes'. For example: If we have a color attribute and we want to give all discounts to the red items on store, we can do this by enabling this on our magento Store. Position: Now, this is bit tricky part. This is used to manage the position where the attribute will be displayed. If you have more than one attribute, the attribute with lower position number will be shown on top. Since we have only one attribute, so we will leave it blank. Allow HTML Tags on Frontend: Set it to yes as we need HTML tags to display on front. Visible On Product View Page On Frontend: Enabling it will allow the attribute to be displayed on product page before product tags. Set it to Yes. Use For Product Listing: Set it to Yes. Used For Sorting and Product Listing: In my case, it’s No. Here's how the configuration would look like: Now go to Manage label/options. Enter the name in admin. Write Design in admin. Now, we need to give the options to the customer. Example: We set two options for the customer: Click on add option and fill all the fields with Round collar except for position. Set the position to 1 as we need to display it as a first option. Set it to default. Now, repeat this and add another option with Crew Neck and set the position to 2. Save the attribute. Before moving forward, let's learn something more about validation. Some validation won’t work for drop-down menus. You might want a text input. Simply select Text field from Catalog Input Type for Store Owner. You might need a validation for text field. Simply select the desired Input Validation for Store Owner. It can be changed to URL if you want to enter a specific URL. Let’s proceed to attribute and set navigate to Catalog->Attribute and select Manage attribute sets. Once on this page, we can use the attribute set that we have already created or we can create a new attribute set. To create new attribute set, click on Add New Set. I named it to Tee-Shirt. You can base this attribute to another attribute set. Here I used Default, based on property. Click to save attribute Set. Now, on this page we can create groups and add attributes to them. But first, see the attributes of the left screen with a red circle. These attributes cannot be removed as they are default system attributes. Any attributed item without a circle can be removed. If you want to remove any attribute, simply drag and drop it to Unassigned attribute list. You can see our newly created attribute in unassigned attribute list. Now let’s make a new group for this attribute. Click on Add New and enter a new group name. I name it to My-Design. Now drag our newly created attribute to the group we just created. Drag and drop design from unassigned attribute to My design group. I moved design and color to the newly created group. Click on save attribute set. You are now the master of Attributes in Magento, but let’s test it out first. For this, we will create a new product to test the attribute set. Navigate to Catalog->Manage Products. Click on Add New Product. You can see your attribute set which you just created. Select 'Tee-Shirt' from Attribute set and continue. You can see “My design”, the group we created. Select it and you will see the drop down box for design and color we added to the group. We can even use existing groups and add the attribute to them. We can simply add it to “General” or any other group which is suitable. This is how attributes in Magento works. I hope you were able to successfully create your first attribute in Magento. If there's something that you need to discuss or felt that something's missing, feel free to comment in the comments section below. Let's face it! Very few of the online stores are out there which are running the default plug and play setup of any ecommerce platform. There are always some mandatory tweaks that everyone makes to personalize the store according to their needs. And Magento 2 is no exception. A lot of the times you are prompt with errors during Magento 2 installation, and you just go berserk when it happens. But don't worry. In this blog, I am going to address and solve the basic errors that occur during Magento 2 installation from the get-go till the phase where you add different products. Magento 2 checks your system for the requirements and other configurations necessary to make it work. It uses the feature READINESS CHECK which checks the error related to any configuration or any incompatible version of your dependencies. This error won’t let you continue with the installation process. So, listen below are some of the common installation errors in Magento 2 along with the solution: Check PHP setting: This the most common error which occurs at the first step of Magento 2 Installation. The error state always_populate_raw_post_data = 0. It is possible that there are some configuration issues in you php.ini file. Don’t worry, it’s easy to fix. Locate php.inif file in your wamp or XAMP respectively. You can search this file in the root folder or sub folder with name PHP. Easy way is to let your operating System search it for you. Once you locate the file, open it in your favorite editor (I use notepad++) . Find always_populate_raw_post_data and remove the semicolon from the start of the line and change the value ON to -1 Initially, it will be: ;always_populate_raw_post_data = On Change it to: always_populate_raw_post_data = -1 Now save the file and close it. Get back to your Magento installation wizard, you can see the error is resolved now. PHP extension error in Magento 2 installation. PHP extension intl is another common error that occurs in Magento 2 installation wizard. In most cases, PhP extensions are commented or turned off. Stay calm. Go the php.ini file and find line php_intl.dll. You can see ;extension = php_intl.dll change it to extension = php_intl.dll Removing the semicolon will uncomment this line and activate php_intl.dll extension. Now save the file and go back to the installation wizard. This problem should be solved now. The Web Page Has a Redirect Loop This error is the most frustrating of all. Initially, it cranked me up, but patience is the key. Whenever you come across this error, just stay calm and move to the solution. The simplest way to avoid this error is to use 127.0.0.1 instead of localhost in Web configuration. OR Go to your Magento Database and find the table core_config Find web/unsecure/base_url and web/secure/base_url in the path column Change all the values from http://localhost/”MagentoFolderName”/ to http:// 127.0.0.1/”MagentoFolderName”/ Now remove the cache by removing all the files and folders in the cache folder of Magento. Navigate to Root/var/cache and delete all the files and folder Now go back to your site. Everything should be perfect now. These are some common errors that might become a bottleneck when installing Magento. Let me know if you are facing some other error or issues while installing Magento 2. Feel free to comment in the comment section below: Learn how to configure Multiple Stores in Magento Meta Description Tag or simply as we call it: Meta Description, is a little description of the page that tells both the user and the search engine about the page’s content. They don’t show up anywhere on the page, but are available in the code. Meta Title and Meta Description both appear when you search something on search engines, and the results that you see are actually Meta Titles and Meta Descriptions. This is how Meta Descriptions appear in search results: Advantages of Using Meta Description For SEO: Now, before executing SEO for your website, the main part is On-Page SEO. We actually have to keep two different perspectives in mind when writing Meta Descriptions: User Side Search Engine Side Let’s first discuss the User Side: User Side: Writing smooth, catchy and attractive Meta Descriptions helps both the user and the search engines to better understand your page. It’s a fact that poorly written Meta Descriptions would yield bad results and may affect CTR (Click-Through Rate) and Search engine rankings. So, now let’s discuss search engine side: Search Engine Side: The biggest question is, “How search engines works and how they pick Meta Descriptions?” It all begins with what keywords or phrases would you like to appear in Search results, like, if we are a Furniture Company that makes furniture only in San Francisco, then these are the keywords or phrases that we would target in our Meta Description for our company: Our keywords that we are going to target on a specific page: Furniture in San Francisco Furniture Supplier in San Francisco. Buy Furniture in San Francisco Online We will make sure that these words surely appear in our Meta Description: Furniture, Supplier, Buy, Online and San Francisco. So, this was just a basic explanation of how keywords and phrases are used in meta-descriptions to make our page relevant for both the users and search engines. I hope that this article must have cleared the concept in your mind, and if there is something that needs to be clarified, comment in the comment sections below and we’ll make sure that you get an answer from our side. Ben Crook is a Magento evangelist with years of front-end development experience. He enjoys creating responsive, easy to use, smoothly-coded websites. Ben loves learning new skills and techniques. He is passionate about creating responsive websites and a proud programmer who loves coding by heart. So, let’s start the interview and get to know more about Ben: Arpatech: Ben, you are a Front-End Developer and specialize in Magento. How did you start your career? How long have you been involved with Magento? What was the reason for choosing this platform? Ben: My first attempt at web development was around 12 years ago at the age of 14, I exported a design from Photoshop then hacked it to pieces. As you can image this was the worst code known to man (even in the days of using tables for the layout!) and pretty difficult to work with, so after a few months I lost interest. Fast forward around 7 years and I wanted a career change so thought about what I would enjoy doing for 8 hours a day, and web development/design was my choice. I spent a few months learning the basics again and was lucky enough to get offered a front-end developer and designer role at a small agency, this gave me experience on a wide variety of websites from one page sites up to custom eCommerce solutions. 2 years later I got speaking with somebody who worked at Space 48, after visiting the office and meeting some other members of the team I was sure it’s the place for me. So with the help of Tony Brown I spent a few difficult months learning Magento and eventually got offered a job with Space 48. After spending some time with Magento I grew to be a big fan, and still am to this day! TL:DR; I’ve been working with Magento for around 2.5 years, and I learned it so I could work at Space 48! Arpatech: Ben, you are associated with Space 48. Please share your work experience as a front-end developer. Please shed some light on Best development practices as a Front-end developer. Ben: I now enjoy working with the front-end of Magento, at first it was a huge pain and even simple tasks seemed overly complex but after gaining some experience across different projects it got much easier. It’s almost like you have to tame Magento, you have to show it some love, spend some time with it and after a while it starts to listen to you. If I could go back to when I first started working with Magento I would tell myself to break it down into smaller chunks, so instead of diving in head first and being overwhelmed I could have concentrated on one area at a time such as layout XML, templates, the fallback mechanism etc. My main tips: Think before you code! For example - Plan out what layout blocks you need to edit/create, do you have all the assets/info you need, plan your file structure, could your changes affect other sections of the site? Maintenance - One thing I have noticed with many Magento stores is they are not maintained, and I don’t just mean patches. The code you wrote 4 years ago is probably not so great now. Maybe you’ve dropped IE support, so remove the related code! (See Rebecca Troth’s talk about this) Consistency - Be consistent across all your projects, if every project uses a different library or naming convention it makes life very difficult when you regularly jump between them. CSS Specificity - My most hated thing as a front-end dev is overly specific CSS (nesting SCSS is a big cause of this), it can be very difficult to work with Magento’s themes because of this. But there’s no excuse when you’re building a new piece of functionality or building a theme from scratch! I’m a huge fan of the BEM naming syntax as it helps combat CSS specificity. Don’t blindly follow Stack Overflow! I have seem some answers that overwrite core code get accepted, always think before you copy and paste. Search for a class/ID instead of forever turning the template hints on. Test, test, test, then test again. Never presume every browser and OS will handle your code the same. Try PHP Storm + the Magicento plugin, this increased my productivity a large amount. Arpatech: What is the best project you are engaged with or have done in your entire career? What are the challenges you faced and how did you tackle them? Ben: The project I’m proudest to work on is CharlotteTilbury.com, mainly due to the rapid international expansion and the many awards the website has won. But on the flip side it’s also one of the most difficult projects I’ve worked on due to the extra stores and customizations, if you don’t plan new stores correctly it can get messy fast. To tackle this it’s all about planning in advance, make sure your file structure and fallback mechanisms is working for you and not against you - duplicate code is the enemy of maintenance. Arpatech: You are engaged with Magento conferences and meet-ups. What do you gain from these conferences? Ben: I enjoy conferences because I usually leave them feeling extra motivated and ambitious, and as Jon Woodall would say the Magento community thrives on sharing knowledge. I actually haven’t attended any Magento meetups yet, but I will likely start attending the Manchester one next year. Arpatech: Do you recommend to attend such conferences? Will you be willing to attend more conferences in future? Ben: I recommend everyone attends at least one conference, whether that be one related to work or a hobby. It’s great to speak to people with similar interests, the knowledge you can take from certain conferences can be so useful. I will definitely be attending more, my favourite conference at the moment is Mage Titans, I’ve never seen a conference with such a great community feel. Arpatech: What do clients have in mind when they hear you suggesting Magento to them? Being a Magento specialist/Developer what do you suggest to them? What myths do the clients usually come up with? Ben: I don’t usually get involved with clients up until the website is being planned/built so luckily I can avoid having to convince people. If I was in that situation I would start by mentioning the large brands that use Magento, such as SEAT, Kurt Geiger, or Burger King. Arpatech: Ben, being a Magento front-end developer, who are your inspirations in the Magento community? Please share some names to the readers who they can follow to learn more about Magento front and back end development. Ben: I don’t have many inspirations when it comes to the front-end of Magento as it’s pretty hard to find front-end developers who openly focus and share knowledge on Magento (if you know of any please do share!), I get the impression most are front-end developers who just happen to work with Magento. In general, the Magento developers I follow the most are: Vinai Kopp Alan Kent Tom Robertshaw Alan Storm Outside of development (but still within Magento) I suggest: Ben Marks Rebecca Troth Arpatech: Apart from work, I follow you on twitter and I found that you are an avid gamer. What games do you play? Do you like first person shooting games? What else do you do in your free time? Ben: I go through stages with gaming, I usually alternate between competitive games such as Counter Strike/Dota/Battlefield and more casual games like Skyrim/Fallout/Overwatch/Civ 6. I’m really enjoying virtual reality at the moment, every time I go on the HTC Vive I’m left amazed. For the social gamers out there I recommend Insomnia Gaming Festival. If I’m not tinkering with Magento or gaming I’m likely to be either relaxing or out with my girlfriend. I also follow British Touring Car Championship on and off and watch a few TV series (Breaking Bad, Power, Game of Thrones). Augmented reality has turned out to be a gamechanger in the world of technology today. And the world saw its manifestation when, a few days ago in South Korea, a dragon flew over the stadium during the opening to a baseball championship game. The dragon was created using 3D Holographic Technology and 5G Telephony Network. The scene left the spectators awestruck, with many calling the technology as the next big thing that is set to bring about a seismic shift in the field of technology in the years to come. Watch the amazing video below. https://youtu.be/Gzab5bb8U9M Source Cross-platform mobile application development is developing software applications that are compliant with various mobile operating systems. As iOS and Android became the most widely used mobile platforms (with sorts of beating retreat from Windows and Blackberry), cross-platform app development frameworks have surely gained popularity. These frameworks have now become both developers and businesses' new favorites. As according to Statista, “The number of available apps in the Google Play Store was most recently placed at 2.6 million apps in December 2018…” In this kind of situation, businesses should not risk missing their presence on both platforms. However, budgeting is usually a problem when businesses go for native apps. That's why the development of cross-platform apps has appeared as the unrivaled choice of companies that strive to be present on both Android and iOS. Therefore, in such a case, it is the cross-platform frameworks that take center stage. Let us further elaborate you in detail what cross platforms are: As I explained earlier, cross-platform application development frameworks enable developers to make mobile applications that are compatible with more than one operating system, iOS and Android in this scenario. It gives them the power to write the code once and run it anywhere for other platforms as well. Benefits of Cross-Platform Here is a list of benefits that you get with Cross-Platforms: Price-effective: Because the code is written once and uses both (or more) platforms, it offers a comparatively low development cost compared to native app development. Uniformity in UI Modules: Cross-platform apps provide a decent degree of consistency in the device's native UI components. The look and feel are uniform. Cloud integration: It is easy to integrate with the cloud environment. You can even easily integrate them with enterprise-grade plugins, therefore offering universal compatibility. Less Time to Market: These apps offer smaller marketing time and vast market reach. The time to market is short because the turnaround is fast. And since the app is available as one and the same time on multiple platforms, it spares marketing effort. Easy hosting: Once all the requirements have been met, it is easy to host on the respective app stores. Differences between VR and AR Augmented reality and virtual reality are two ways where tech can change the way you perceive the world. The terms can be quite confusing. Often people assume that AR and VR are the same. So, let me first explain what is the difference between augmented reality and virtual reality? Both technologies can change the way you look at the world. Nevertheless, they are aiming for a different goal. Virtual reality attempts to create a simulated environment around the user. It can take you to places that you have never seen and enables you to enter a new world. It implies a full experience of immersion that shuts out the physical world. Using VR devices like HTC Vive, Oculus Rift or Google Cardboard, users can be transported to a number of real-world and envisioned environments such as the middle of a squawking penguin colony or the back of a dragon. If VR is doing the right job, you'll believe you're actually there. Augmented reality, unlike VR, doesn't really take you to a different place. With digital information, it improves the world around you. For example, seeing your navigation system's route mingled into the real street image while driving in your car. Using the camera on a smartphone, it adds digital elements to a live view. Examples of augmented reality experiences include Snapchat lenses and Pokemon Go game. How to build cross-platform AR apps? It all started with the announcements by Google Glass and Oculus Rift in 2012. Microsoft's HoloLens in 2016, Apple's ARKit in 2017 and Google's ARCore in 2018. The emergence of virtual, mixed, and augmented reality. Improved AR capabilities for mobile platforms are among the greatest trends. Apps with AR functionalities like Yelp, Google Translate, or Pokémon GO are just the start. Augmented reality encourages the creation of innovative user experiences that support your brand. Build the App in a System-Agnostic Manner Thankfully, ARKit and ARCore each offer a good user-friendly interface for Unity, the engine we use to build apps. Less luckily, each API does not have a unified entry point. Last but not least, the two APIs are quite different in their design: a function call to perform a particular task in ARKit does not simply have an equivalent in ARCore, so porting code across the two platforms isn't just about replacing function names. Of course, maintaining parallel iOS and Android versions of the projects would not be feasible. App is regularly updated and introducing new features to two entirely separate apps at the same time would be logistically unmanageable. Instead, develop a wrapper library that'd enable us all to develop the app in a platform-agnostic manner. Rather than invoking AR functionality directly into the code, route all AR-related activities via a new, generic interface that transmits instructions to ARKit or ARCore based on the operating system. Augmented reality applications come in two distinguishable types Location-based Marker-based 1. Building a Location-based augmented reality app Augmented reality apps based on location use the unique capabilities of mobile devices to supervise the position of each device. This allows augmented reality apps to offer contextual data depending on the particular location of an individual device. With respect to real-world applications, this technology allows marketers to provide location-sensitive functionality such as assisting with directions in a specific city, locating a vehicle in a busy car park, or recognizing constellation patterns in the night sky. 2. Building a Marker-based augmented reality app In a number of ways, marker-based augmented reality apps differ from location-based apps. First, marker-based AR apps function by allowing the software to identify specific patterns (this could be a QR code or brand symbol) when used in conjunction with a device camera to overlay digital information on the real-world environment. This means they can see a virtual UI on top of the object when the device user points their smartphone to a particular object or setting. Secondly, if the image in question is either animated or 3D, the digital widget sits on top of the identified pattern. How to develop Augmented Reality (AR) Apps While developing augmented reality apps on iOS and Android, there are a number of things you need to consider. Many of these augmented reality apps will superimpose 3D imagery or text over actual images processed by the device of the user. But, to think about creating an augmented reality app, you should have expertise in image processing. Attempting to access some form of image processing ability will allow you to develop an application designed to track markers or natural features in the real-world environment. The development of augmented reality apps requires far more than image analysis and processing techniques. You will need to have access to more conventional mobile app development capability and use developers with a thorough understanding of the mobile app development method. It is one way to avoid and manage the commercial and technical risk factors associated with your augmented reality projects. Also, this will expand your mobile app development capability. Due to the significant growth of AR / VR adoption, it is vital to consider that many consumers of augmented reality will be mass-market in the future and expect a fast and efficient UI / UX. Making your Augmented Reality App simple and immersive will greatly improve your chances of success in a rapidly growing market. Cross-platform augmented reality app developers will usually have a mix of skills including 3D modeling, computer vision and imaging expertise, and a deep knowledge of existing mobile technologies. From an imagery point of view, you will need an experienced development team that understands 3D modeling in significant depth, with previous experience in the process of rendering, shading, and texture. The preferred programming languages for the development of Augmented Reality Apps are C # and C++, providing an easy Augmented Reality entry point for developers who already embody these skills. Moreover, these developers can make use of the best cross-platform mobile frameworks for 2019. ARKit Vs. ARCore – How do they compare one another It's only been a few months since we have Apple's ARKit between us and it's already making a stir on the market. The tech-whopper's inventive attempt brings with it a lot of new opportunities to allow innovative ways to accommodate Augmented Reality, as this AR platform is all configured with the latest feature resources and robust properties to integrate and serve your iOS AR project. And with this, developers of the iOS app have already began building advanced Augmented Reality solutions. On the other side, in the form of ARCore, we get a parallel power evolving in AR space. It's again a striving attempt by the tech-giant Google, which implies to be an ARKit's close competitor. With its efforts to iterate the professional skills into new application concepts and build effective AR solutions, it's all set to serve present and future Android phones with the modern technology in the forthcoming tech spells. But which AR platform is better? Let’s have a look at the features of both Apple’s ARKit and Google’s ARCore and make a quick comparison between both: Similarities between ARCore and ARKit Features ARKit came with three unique feature offerings and also includes various sub-features and resources. Those are motion tracking, light emission, and understanding of the environment. All these together offer a comprehensive AR potential that can be sought and employed by Augmented Reality developers to build significantly augmented reality apps with ARKit. These features combined help developers of the iOS app to enable users to perceive and relate with enhanced visual objects with perfect clarity. Environmental Understanding: Using ARKit, Apple devices can monitor and analyze the scenes they see through the camera and determine distinct shapes (such as horizontal distances) to produce useful results. Motion Tracking: ARKit can unvaryingly and accurately track the placement of the device in reference to the real objects in the live frame captured by the camera using Visual Inertial Odometer (VIO). It allows devices to capture data from the motion sensor, recording the device's real-time position. Light Estimation: It makes iPhone and iPad cameras to sense and measure the amount of light present in an area. It really helps iOS app developers to allow AR apps to consistently detect and control a certain amount of light to flash and maintain continuity. Although ARCore isn't really Google's first attempt at AR solutions since it had launched Tango earlier. But, ARCore emerges as a baked-in platform for Android mobile devices and is all configured with the latest capabilities in terms of sensory perception, measurement values and command interpretation. Which makes ARCore a wiser and more proficient platform to meet the needs of modern Augmented Reality development as per Android app developers. Let's see how this operates with a different functional component of an AR framework. Environmental Understanding: ARCore reads and detects it horizontally just like ARKit. Everything that includes settings and the functional process works, in the same way, to help devices understand the environment. Motion Tracking: Unlike ARKit that goes with VIO, ARCore tracks and interprets IMU (Inertial Measurement Unit) data. It also analyses the shape, builds and features of the surrounding objects very differently to detect and identify the correct position and orientation of the Android device in use. Light estimation: ARCore is again very close in terms of taking light estimations. Similarly, it identifies the light in the surrounding atmosphere and changes the effect of focal positioning and illumination, disseminating the light balance in the most organized and effective way to derive the best possible results from it. Differences between ARkit and ARCore One of the significant differences between ARCore and ARKit is their objective. ARKit aims to create an AR ecosystem that is prevalent throughout industries to provide companies with technological tools to strengthen their bottom lines. Fundamentally, Apple tries to create a series of interlinked devices that function for consumer and professional purposes on AR. By contrast, ARCore strives to generalize AR among all platforms, rendering the technology available across as many people as possible. Google is attempting to add AR solutions to even more businesses with the hopes of broadening their brands with wider accessibility. Also, there are a few other major differences to consider. For instance, when it comes to its mapping capabilities, ARCore is tougher because it utilizes larger maps. On the other side, ARKit only stores the latest location data and removes old data. Because of this property, the ARKit cannot map as much of the world as the ARCore can, constraining image stability after the user has relocated the camera away from the scene. Another difference is that the product of Google employs its tracking capabilities to analyze more tracking points than those of Apple. Ultimately, this implies that the mapped area in ARCore apps extends faster. However, ARKit is more reliable when distinguishing between horizontal and vertical surfaces. Finally, the documentation supporting the Google product API is relatively limited. You get a pretty generic guide that disintegrates every class and method as well as a "quick start" manual to develop with ARCore. Apple has the edge here; the support files of the ARKit break down every segment that develops an AR application more convincingly. Nevertheless, there are now only minor issues for the two SDKs because they both succeed in overlaying virtual objects onto the real world. ARCore has more reach, but with its dimensions and lighting, ARKit is a bit more accurate, so choosing one largely depends on what you're trying to attain with your app. Gabriel is a web developer with over 7 years of experience in the Magento eCommerce system. He is in the web development field for more than 11 years, which includes PHP, HTML, CSS, and jQuery). His website is http://www.gabrielguarino.com/. Gabriel also carries a stack of Magento certifications, he is a Magento Certified Developer, Magento Certified Developer Plus, Magento Certified Solution Specialist and Magento Certified Front-End Developer. Gabriel has also been a Keynote Speaker at various Magento conferences.Today, we got the privilege to interview this multi-talented Magento specialist. So, let's get started: Arpatech: Gabriel, you have 11+ years of vast experience in web development and more than 7 years of experience of working with Magento. What made you so interested in working for the e-commerce industry? Gabriel: I've been working hard to improve my skills since I was very young. A time came when I was able to make progress fast and then I started to see the results of my hard work. I successfully implemented responsive HTML5 websites, following SEO guidelines and best coding practices. However, when I started working with Magento, I realized that my work had a big impact for both merchants and customers: A good Magento implementation led to sales for the merchants as well as it was a good buying experience for the customers too. At that point, I decided to learn more every day and challenge myself to exceed all the expectations of my clients. Arpatech: Gabriel, being a Magento Certified Developer you know the ins and outs of Magento? When anyone of us gets stuck somewhere in our projects, we Google about our query. What do you do when you face such problems? Do you prefer community or Google first? Gabriel: Magento is a really complex platform, and you always find something that you need to investigate. After 7 years of extensive experience, I found that the best method to investigate a specific problem is reviewing the Magento core. But nowadays, developers tend to search and rely on Google for their every query and if they are unable to find the perfect solution to their query, they are stuck and they don't know what to do. But my approach is different. Every time I wonder how to do something in Magento, I start searching for code samples in the Magento codebase or look for a similar feature in the Magento core, and I try to find the module and the class in Magento that is in charge of that specific feature. To me this practice is really special since using this way, you can review the code that the Magento team implemented on the platform, and that means that you will follow the Magento conventions instead of just finding the solution somewhere else on the Internet. Well, if you cannot find the solution in the Magento core, I suggest opening a new post in the Magento Forums or Magento Stack Exchange. Arpatech: What is the most frequent myth that e-commerce merchant come up related to Magento. How do you overcome it when dealing it as a professional solution specialist? Gabriel: Sometimes, I found merchants complaining about performance or even random issues which are hard to describe and hard to reproduce. But my perception is totally different. I found that Magento is not the reason for those problems, the reason is the bad implementation by some developers and system administrators. Whenever, I am given the task to debug those websites, I found really poor coding practices, duplicated class rewrites, overloaded third party extensions, and so on. Magento is great, but the community should study the best practices and implement them in a right way so that the Magento website can function in a proper way. Arpatech: Gabriel, you have all certifications of Magento. Please guide our readers on how to choose between these certifications. Many people want to learn Magento but are unable to find the perfect guidance. Please guide our newbie developers on how to get started with Magento. Gabriel: If you are a newbie and just starting with Magento, I recommend you to read everything about Magento 2, including the available books and the Magento 2 Developer Documentation. If you have experience in Magento 1, you know that the "new era" has come: Magento 2. If that is the case, you can prove your knowledge in Magento 1 since that would be your credential that validates your experience. Well, if you are a back-end developer or don’t have much experience with Magento, you can take the Magento Certified Developer certification. And if you have a lot of experience as back-end developer, then you can attempt the Magento Certified Developer Plus Certification. If you are a front-end developer, then you should choose the Magento Certified Front-End Developer certification. Finally, if you are a consultant or project manager with experience in Magento, then you can choose the Solution Specialist certification. Arpatech: We all have some mentors and motivations in our lives. Who are your mentors in Magento Community? How do you keep yourself updated in the community? Gabriel: I don't have a mentor in the Magento Community, but I try to follow the people who are really working hard to make Magento a reality and part of their lives. These people have an active participation in the Magento Community and they keep sharing their knowledge and experience. Also, I keep myself updated by participating in the Magento Forums, and by doing that I am able to solve the issues and problems of Magento Community and other people in charge. Moreover, I keep myself updated by getting in touch with Magento Forums by Sherrie Rohde, reading the posts by professionals and latest articles at #MagentoMonday Community Digest. In addition to that, I am an active Twitter user and I follow most of the Magento community members. Plus, I follow the #realmagento hashtag to be updated with the tweets that the community is posting with that hashtag. Arpatech: You are the keynote speaker at many Magento conferences. Please share your experience as a speaker, and also guide our readers about the advantages of being connected with Magento Meetups and conferences. Gabriel: Having good knowledge and an extensive experience in the field of Magento, makes me satisfied when I share it with newcomers and experienced people in the field. I take it as a good opportunity to be a keynote speaker and deliver presentations about interesting topics relevant to Magento. When I am connected to the Magento meetups and conferences I myself get a lot of knowledge about trending topics related to Magento. Also, I take it as the good opportunity as I get the immediate feedback of my queries from speakers and attendees. So, it’s the great time spent in the Magento events. Arpatech: Many people have faced problems when moving from Magento 1 to Magento 2, so, as a developer how do you convince merchants to move to Magento 2? Gabriel: Magento 2 is the upgraded version of Magento 1 and it has come with a lot of improvements, bug fixing options, and new features. Thus, we can say that this upgraded version of Magento will dominate the Magento 1 and nobody would be using the old version in three years or less. In addition to that, the Magento Developer Documentation team is doing a great job documenting every single aspect related to Magento 2, which is also important for the merchant since more documentation means that they have a solid e-commerce solution supported by the Magento team and the Magento community. Arpatech: Now, let’s talk something besides your professional life. What do you prefer to do to in your free time? What activities do you do? Gabriel: I love every type of sports and I have made it my daily routine to go GYM after my hectic workday. On Saturdays, I go cycling on rural roads. I used to swim as well but adding a swimming to my daily routine was little time taking, so I am not doing it these days and has a simpler routine. Apart from daily GYM and cycling on Saturdays, I like reading everything related to Magento and web development, so I always read something new at night before sleeping. There is a disruption going on right now in every sector of our lives, and technology is playing a huge role in it. But, despite this ever-changing technological landscape, we still believe in certain stories, folklores, and myths regarding different things without knowing the facts. Now, in this article, we are not going to talk about any Loch Ness Monster or Bigfoot, but a GIANT for sure. And when I say giant, I am specifically talking about Magento- an ecommerce platform that is used by nearly quarter of all online stores. But it may boggle your mind that how can there be myths revolving around something as boring as an e-commerce platform? Well, the moment you opened this article, you’ve officially entered “the nerd world” and here you would find stories on such topics. *Wink* Well, people do discuss certain usages, parameters, drawbacks about Magento, but they haven’t really personally experienced any of it. Those are all just preconceived notions peppered by people that have now become facts which simply aren’t true! But before we go on exploring “Magento Myths”, let me just give you a little overview of Magento and discuss its key features in simple points: Magento is an Open-Source Platform Yields great results for SEO Easily scalable Supports entire site management Has flexible security and payment options Great analytics and reporting features So, now that you know the key features of Magento, let’s discuss the Magento Myths in detail: Myth #1: Magento is SLOW I get that Magento is a bit complex e-commerce platform than the rest, but by no means is it slow. Magento is used by 25% of all online stores, and some of them include really big names like Adidas, Nike, Eastwood, etc. Thousands of visitors flock to these online stores daily, so, if it was slow, such big brands would never use Magento. Moreover, previous versions of Magento have been updated for any loopholes and the latest version Magento 2 has got some real performance improvements. So, if your website/online store is running slow, Magento isn’t the real culprit- look for other factors. Myth #2: Magento can’t be used for small ecommerce stores Magento is highly flexible and scalable, so it works perfectly fine for both small ecommerce stores and large-scale businesses. It totally depends on your business needs and if Magento is the right platform for your business. For non-techies, Magento development may be a little difficult to handle, but that too depends upon the level of technical tweaks you want to make in it. Nonetheless, Magento does promises do deliver the quality and performance that surely offers you great business growth. Myth #3: Lacks customer support Most of the people say that Magento doesn’t offer any customer support, well, that totally depends upon the Magento plan chosen by you. Magento offers 24/7 customer support if you go with the Enterprise Edition which is paid of course. But if you go with the community edition which is free, you can get help from the awesome Magento Community which is the biggest and the most responsive community that no other ecommerce platform has right now. So, just like in any other service, to enjoy advanced privileges, you must become a paid member, and same goes with Magento too. Myth #4: It’s awesome for SEO There is no denying the fact that Magento is SEO-friendly, but at the same time, we should not underestimate the importance of SEO and its properly deployed strategies for other ecommerce platforms. Ecommerce websites other than Magento can definitely rank better if they are tweaked and properly optimized for search engines. So, one should not ignore the significance of SEO as it’s a whole different ballgame. Myth #5: The Magento Community is all I need Well, running an ecommerce store is a crucial and delicate process. Sooner or later your store may require some serious fixes and you better be prepared for that, as time is of the essence and with every passing moment, you may lose potential prospects that are landing on your website. So, there are certain things which can’t be tackled by the DIY method or community support. And for this very reason, Arpatech ensures that your store stays up and glitch free at all times. Community’s take on Magento Myths Now, when you reach out to communities for finding answers related to your queries, you’ll get mixed responses, both good and bad. Moreover, we wanted to keep things transparent, so we have included responses without any editing so as to keep the responses unbiased. So, some responses may not go well with our theme, but these are the genuine responses of the community regarding Magento, so, here they are: 1: I think the biggest myth is that you can install 15 different modules and they will all magically work together, like the multi-inventory center's module will suddenly work with a custom POS module. 2: The craziest things is people thinking it is a point-and-click system that you can just install hundreds of mods for and it will all magically work. 3: The most dangerous myth IMO is: "You can run Magento with zero technical skill and not paying a penny to experts". 4: Love Magento but wouldn't really call these absolute myths - "Magento that it’s slow, its maintenance is expensive, it’s only suitable for Large-scale businesses' limited customer support". Magento Myths…DEBUNKED? Every ecommerce platform has its limitations, and there are various myths associated with each one of it. The Magento Myths that we have discussed in this article are the few ones which are really famous. But what do you think? Were these Myths enough? Do you know more? Or is there any Myth which you think is wrongly addressed? Kindly leave us your thoughts in the comment section below. E-commerce has surely turned out to be the next big thing on the internet as people have made billions of dollars through this platform. The most popular framework that comes in mind while talking about e-commerce platforms is Magento. It is the entire e-commerce business solution in a box. It is the most flexible e-commerce platform. Magento has worldwide popularity because of its functionality and strong community support. If the online merchants want to get the most from this flexible, feature-rich and powerful e-commerce platform, then they must need to install Magento plugins or extensions in their Magento Store to extend the functionality of it. Many e-commerce extensions and plugins are available on the internet but choosing the best one can be a difficult choice for an online business owner. To make it easier, we are listing down some awesome Magento extensions to install on your e-commerce website and enhance your online store’s functionality. These extensions will definitely help in providing greater advantages to the Magento store and assist your business flourish and grow in the present competitive market. 1: One Step Checkout Extension for Magento Magento One Step Checkout Extension is one of the best and essential extension for Magento. It allows the user to simply sign-in and fill their carts. If the user has already filled out the payment details, the extension will work like magic. The extension makes all checkout steps to appear together on a single page. It supports 40+ payments method and Google Suggest to automatically fill the address. It also supports multiple languages and PayPal integration. The checkout extension can be modified according to the web store’s needs. 2: Creare SEO Creare SEO aims to help Magento store owner for optimal SEO performance. Adding this extension to your online store will helps in avoiding duplicate content and 404 error pages. The extension can also add a lot of features to your Magento website like HTML sitemap, 301 redirects for discontinued products, unique category headings, social media schema and many more. The ultimate aim of the Creare SEO extension is to make your store rank better in Google and by making small changes to the store’s configuration. 3: Blog Even on an e-commerce site, a Blog can be helpful in announcing promotions, news on upcoming products or even you can write some relevant content regarding the business. Magento Blog Extension works as a silent salesman for your online store and this would help in attracting visitors. Optimize the blog content from SEO perspective to get more visibility over the web. The extension offers regular blogging platform including RSS and many others. 4: Social Connect Magento Extension This extension adds social icons on the login page of your online store. Customers use these buttons to log in or get registered in the e-commerce store without going through the trouble of registration process and procedure by using their Google or Facebook accounts. This overall process has become a convenient way for the customers. The functionality will be available on creating an account page plus on the first step of your store’s checkout process. 5: Yotpo Yotpo has become one of the most widely used Magento extension because of its functionality. Shopping online may be convenient but there are people with reservation. Before purchasing the products, customers evaluate reviews or feedbacks of that particular item. Yotpo Magento extension provides the customers the facility to evaluate the product on the existing shopping site without looking for anywhere else. Conclusion The list doesn’t end here. There are many other useful Magento extensions helping to increase the online sales. But these top 5 Magento extension or plugins will be of great help in boosting your online business. Integrate them into your online shopping store and experience amazing results for your e-commerce business. So you have set up an e-commerce store and your website is receiving great traffic. But, a great number of your website visitors are abandoning the cart and you are clueless as to what could be the reason for this type of user behavior? Well, any e-commerce business owner should learn how to optimize their shopping carts so that the unlimited number of customers can possibly go through with their purchases. Shopping cart abandonment is one of the most crucial problems in an online business and a seriously critical issue. Most of the leakage happens in the checkout process. Even when the checkout is completed, the risk of losing an e-commerce customer begins almost as soon as they get to know your product offer. You can easily reduce cart abandonment rates with a few changes and little efforts. Here we have specified some tips to reduce cart abandonment rates on your Ecommerce Store: 1: Free or Flat Shipping According to a study, 44% of online customers abandon their shopping carts due to high shipping costs. While many others abandon the carts because the seller didn’t mention shipping rates or costs. A similar study shows that a free shipping leads customers to complete the checkout process. Customers like to buy products with free shipping offer. The study also shows that the customers who receive free shipping ends up being more satisfied than those who have to pay additional fees. 2: Multiple Payments Option With an extensive list of payments, options for an online store will make the e-commerce sales grow. Having a wide variety of payment options including credit cards, third-party online payments services like PayPal can even reach those customers who have not visited the store in the first place. Make your products available to all kinds of digital payment buyers. 3: Guest Checkouts Keep your sign-up process as simple as possible to avoid customers from leaving your site early before finishing. Enable the option of a guest account to let the customer checkout easily. It is a great way to help new customers to get used to the website without pressuring them. Just get the relevant information from the customers opting for Guest Checkout. It would be better to let customer first add items in their baskets and then encourages them to sign-up for further process. 4: Email Reminders, Sales, Deals & Discounts Communication with the customers is essential in marketing. Who doesn’t love to get deals, sales & discounts? Spread the word for reminder and promotions. Use email marketing to bring real customers back by reminding off their lost items or to make new purchases. 5: Secure the Check-Out Page No one wants to buy from an unsecured website. Establish the credibility as an e-commerce merchant by securing your checkout process. A “Google Trusted Store” badge offers certainty and security to the Webstore. It will help in winning the customer's trust. This will also give assurance to the customers that they’re in a safe place. 6: No Hidden Charges In e-commerce field, never hide decisive information from the customers. Eliminate any type of hidden charges. Be accurate with the items left in the shopping cart or in the stock. One way to reduce hidden fees is by adding built-in sales tax calculator to the shopping cart to avoid any surprise additional charges to the customer. 7: Provide Currency Converter Make currency converter available in the shopping cart or during the check-out process to avoid confusions for the customers. When they know the price of the products in their currency, they are most likely to keep moving forward with the checkout process. 8: Be Crystal Clear About The Costs Be clear about the shipping costs and taxes with the shoppers when they are stepping out of the checkout process. Show all the prices in the cart. Customers hate being surprised about the costs at the last moment. Conclusion The Number 1 thing in any business is to win the trust of your customers. Make things easier for customers so that they can trust your e-commerce store. By keeping these tips in mind, you can reduce the barriers for customers and can improve the conversion rates. By applying these simple tips to your e-commerce store, you can possibly increase the sale and provide an easier shopping experience for the customers. In the world of modern technology, ecommerce is becoming the first option for many companies and entrepreneurs who wants to launch their business virtually. Building up your own ecommerce store seems like a daunting task, but it’s not all that difficult. You can launch your ecommerce store in a day following some simple steps. Being in the pre-launch phase would be a critical time for an online merchant to keep the business going forward but taking correct steps and in right order, will make your store a success. Building the business without being prepared can result in a disaster that’s why we are sharing down here some most important and simple steps to help in starting your business online. 1: Opt For An Ecommerce Platform The two ways to launch an online store is either built one yourself which is self-hosted or rent a pre-built one i-e hosted by an ecommerce platform. The best option is to rent a pre-build store from platforms like Shopify, WooCommerce, Magento or any other similar service. Create an account, select the store look, add the products and you are done. It is as simple as managing your Facebook account. After successfully registering, don’t forget to create content or use Standard Pages Template to save the time in optimizing the content. You can also create additional pages from your e-commerce platform tools. After getting done with the content, you will be needed to add a payment provider, create your shipping rates, and add the billing information. 2: Pick The Store Category Browse other ecommerce stores and social shopping sites to categorize your store. What's going to be your niche? Use their information as a benefit because big stores have an unlimited source of data and hundreds of employees who organizes the sales and the products. Check for the best seller category. Follow trending products. Write down eye-catching product ideas. Revise the list and look for niche products. Avoid products of higher prices. Check the products demand at Google Trend. Cross the product off the list if it is seasonal and has no market demand or value. Drop-shipping allows you to quickly switch between ideas. Ideally, you should have one to two product line ideas that you could use to fill your store. 3: Find & Approach Suppliers There are many drop-shipping apps to help you out. For a free trial, try Oberlo which is built for Shopify e-commerce platform and specifically designed to manage AliExpress drop-shipping. After installing Oberlo, go to AliExpress, search for the products you have decided to sell, and import them into your store. After importing, customize them according to the needs. Import at least 40-50 products. Whenever receive an order, go to Oberlo’s order page, confirm it and get it shipped to the customer. 4: Add Products To The Store A store without the products won’t do much good. The fun part after setting up your business virtually, is the fact that what you are going to sell. If you are building your store in a day, you will not going to spend much time finding the products manually. The fastest track is to source products through drop-shipping services such as Oberlo, AliExpress, Amazon etc. Just copy the products from these services to your store and set up your own prices/markups. After selling the product, purchase it from the drop-shipping services and deliver it directly to your customer. It is the best approach for beginner level entrepreneurs. But avoid expensive items as they are harder to sell. 5: Prepare Shipping The shipping strategy is an integral part of the ecommerce business. Without products and the method to ship them, the store won’t do much good. Thankfully the drop-shipping apps help in filling your store with products and get them delivered to the customers. After receiving an order, confirm it via the drop-shipping app installed on your website and your product will be sent to the customer. Installing the drop-shipping apps ensures that the store is ready to start filling customer orders right away. Conclusion – Are You Ready to sell? If your store is launched in a day, you can probably land a sale in a week. The biggest mistake that people make is that they never try. By following these crucial steps, you will see how fast and easy it is to get your ecommerce store up and running! If you have any suggestions, feedback or ideas, let us know in the comments section below. Moving products between categories in Magento seems to be a hectic job. Imagine that your employee gives you a days' estimate to move products to a new category. Imagine you have launched a sale, you want to move your current products to the new sale category and you are running out of time. But, don’t you worry! You are at the right place. Moving products to a different category is a tough routine. But with a simple trick, this task can be done easily. Let’s start moving it! Login to your Admin Panel. Navigate to System->import/export and select Export. Select “products” in entry type CSV in Export File Format. Click on 'Continue' to export the entire catalog. The CSV file will be downloaded. Now open the CSV file, don’t be scared of the cluttered data. We can make it readable. Select All cells in excel (Ctrl+A). From Quick access toolbar, select Format and click on 'Auto fill column width'. You can see that the data is readable now. We will apply a filter to the data so that we can get the products of required category. Let’s assume that you need to transfer products from Gadgets category to Sale Category. For this, go to data and select filters. Open the filters in your category column and select your desired category which you need to transfer. You will see that your products are now filtered and only the selected category is visible. Now copy all the rows and paste them to another excel workbook to avoid any errors in the file. We only need the SKU and _category column. We need to get rid of all other columns. Delete all other columns in your new excel workbook and check the rows for any empty values. Delete the entire rows which contain any empty values. This will refine your products and _category data. In the _category column, change all the values to sale. Save the new file on your desktop as CSV (if you are on mac save as windows CSV file). Now, open the Magento admin panel and navigate to System->import/export and select import. Select the entry type as “Products” and import behavior as “Replace Existing Complex Data”. Upload your CSV file and click on check data. Magento will check the data and give the feedback about the validity of the file. If the file is validated, you will see the import button. Click to import the CSV file. Now, you can see that the products from Gadget category are transferred to Sale category. Cross check the categories in the 'Manage Category' section. Your new category is filled with the products from the previous category. In order to show the impact on the store, reindex and clear the cache so that the impact will be visible to the front end of your store. Now, get started with the new category and strategize your new workflows in accordance to that. If you have any questions, feel free to comment in the comments section below. Can you hear them? Can you feel the echoes of their digital footsteps? Do you know what it is? IT’S HOLIDAY SEASON! Industry experts are already expecting 2016 sales to be record-breaking. It all sounds really exciting, right? But, as they say, “Not everything is all sunshine and rainbows.” Most of the eCommerce store owners like you are already overwhelmed or concerned about the surge of online traffic you are going to see because of increase in Online Shopping Trend! And it’s an ultimate nightmare of every eCommerce store owner when their website becomes slow or goes down permanently. Don’t sweat! We are here to help you face this nemesis by providing you with an ultimate checklist on how to keep your Magento Store’s performance top-notch during this Holiday Season. So, here are the 10 most important tips to speed up your Magento Store, enhance its overall experience for your visitors and come out victorious through this Holiday Season: 1. Calculate Your Server’s Projected Capacity One of the most important things is to keep check of the capacity of your servers during the holiday season by doing some necessary calculations and estimations. Combating with the hustles and bustles of holiday season and keeping aware with trends must be handy to you if you have been in eCommerce industry for a considerable period of time. Also, the most important thing here is to keep track of post trends. This will surely assist you in future holiday seasons by letting you guess or predict the user traffic over your site. And most important thing is to keep the backup of your Magento web store resources. For that, I would suggest you look into the Web Analytics software of your website for past data. 2. Design and Optimize your Magento Web Store During the festive holidays, Magento Web stores tend to slow down because of the huge traffic influx. Well, do you know that even a 1-second delay can cause up to 7% decrease in conversion rates of a Web store? It's too much to lose per second and for sure no merchant wants this to happen. To control the situation out there you need to streamline your web store by checking and improvising the speed of your Magento Webstore. Eschew any performance hurdles that will result in an increase of the load time of the overall page. But the real question is how? For that you can use caching mechanism and optimization. This will also help your Magento Webstore to bring good ranks in search engines’ results. 3. Make Your Magento Website’s Front and Back End Look Better If you don’t talk to your customers, How will you know How to talk to your customers? - Will Evans, tlclabs.com So if you really want to get most of your Magento website, you need to improve the front-end and the back-end interface at the same time. And for that clearly get rid of all the bumps and lumps beforehand. But, before doing so, make the backup of your server because once the changings are done, you cannot reverse things back. Please go through the checklist below in order to get smooth operation of website: Clear up your database and cache. This will make user to navigate even fast. Delete all the products and the extensions that are unwanted or not in use. That will decrease the burden from your site and server. That is our goal right now. Re-index your products effectively. Merge CSS and JS files, so that you have better front-end performance. Compress the output of the query. This will leave you with more space. Use expires headers with parallel downloading. This is another good option in order to improve the interface of your Magento Webstore. 4. Load Test and Monitor Application Performance Suppose that you predicted X number of visitors on your Magento website, but during the holidays the number of visitors exceeded than your expectation. Now at this point, you’ll get to see your website lagging in performance, and it starts to get worse with every additional visitor that lands on your website. So when you tend to encounter such situations, do homework first. Well, you too have to do load testing of your site. Now, how would you do Load Testing? For that, you have to create a simulated environment and then check how the user traffic varies. This is done to ensure that the website runs smoothly once there is a real time traffic on the website. This is a kind of stress testing that we normally perform. The above explained process is load testing but another factor which is very important here is Monitoring Application Performance. It has to be done when website's performance is at the stake. Monitor the server performance like Varnish Hit Ratio, APC Hit Rate, Memcached Fill Ratio etc. 5. Use CDN and Page Caching Well, you can encounter different situations where you have to use static contents and static pages on your Magento Web Store. To do that you need to use a CDN (Content Delivery Network). By using the CDN, you can use the global data centers. The global data center is the place where all of your data is kept. The advantage of doing so is that when an international user makes a request, it is catered by the data center located nearest to the user. In order to enhance speed and performance of your Magento website, you need to load off that CSS and JS files. This will give you the advantage of engaging more and more concurrent customers to your Magento website for this holiday. Also, you can cache your static pages. It is also one of the steps you can use to make your Magento web store faster. Use Varnish for that. 6. Mobile-friendly Web store Today, many of the users use mobile phones, and during the holiday seasons almost 30% of the shopping orders are booked and sold via smartphones. So, in order to target the larger audience, follow the suit of other eCommerce sites like eBay, Amazon, Walmart etc. which are mobile friendly. So make an eCommerce site that is optimized enough so that users can use them on their smartphones or any other mobile devices. This will help you to engage more and more global customer base with your Magento website. 7. Make an Order Fulfilment strategy that is Unimpaired Let’s assume that you have ordered something online, but you didn’t receive your order on time? You will feel pissed off. And chances here are that you will decide never to buy anything from that online shop again. There is a possibility that this can happen when you choose to shop things online. And, what if it is a holiday season? It would be too bad of an experience for you. Due to this situation, your Magento Webstore must have an order fulfillment and delivery strategy that is foolproof before the holiday rush starts and your website experiences a traffic hike. Keep a check of things that are mentioned below: A: Even if it requires you to revamp the whole infrastructure of your Magento website then I’ll suggest you dig deep and do it, because holiday is that part of the year when you make most of your customers. B: Disable the extra extensions, if they are not in use. C: If there is a need to hire additional staff in order to streamline the process of order delivery, then do it. Believe me, the profit you are going to make is much more than this. 8. Pump up the SEO, Organic, and Social Search You have the most fabulous Magento website with the coolest products ever but what’s the use of it when no one knows about your website. What would be the point of making that store? So, in order to let the world know about your Magento website, you have to plan a strategy so that your eCommerce website can rank higher in the search engines. You have to optimize your website in such a way that people notice your website. Search Engine Optimization is not dead, so let your website content do all the talk. All of the social media websites that includes Facebook, LinkedIn etc., are great in order to get better traffic and ranking on search engines. After you have your product ready to go, launch it and get it reviewed. By doing so, you will get many positive and negative reviews from your customers. The positive one will help you boost out the traffic on your website whereas the negative ones will help you to remove any flaw or bugs from your web store and make it better, performance wise. 9. Giveaway Discounts To Your Loyal Customers Indeed a happy customer is the most valuable asset for any business. It is a universal mantra that, customer is the king. Once you have taken a customer in your trust, they will start working for you by marketing your brand and your Magento website among other people by sharing their good experience with you. If you want to enjoy the success on the basis of customers, give your promised customers an attractive discounts, deals, and coupons, or may be ask them to enroll in your web store’s lucky draw. Make them happy with your offerings. In return to this, always ask them to refer your web store to others. By doing so and giving deals and discounts relevant to holiday season, the traffic on your Magento Web store will surely boost up. 10. Check your Hosting Server A slow website is a deal-breaker and has a bad impact on visitors, moreover, a cheap server host may not deliver performance. Many of the hosting service providers pretending that they are giving all you want but the fact is that they actually don't! These cheap hosting service providers provide you shared hosting. That means you have to share your site's resources with other websites and as a result your website not only becomes slow, but also its security is at risk. Searching for a solution? If you need a solution for that, then you must look for a reliable, trustworthy and agile hosting service providers for your Magento web store. It may cost you a little more, but when the security, site’s performance and speed are more concerned, then cost is not a big deal, as your business’s reputation is at stake. Conclusion The festive holiday season can be grueling, but it is the time when you can make huge profit. So, gear up and make your Magento website ready for festive holiday, tackle all the unexpected issues and situations you might come across. All you have to do during this holidays is to create a holiday campaign calendar, get social and engage better with your Magento Web store. Also, make sure not to forget to keep testing your web store, as you don't want your store to crash during the peak hours! Want to ask questions? Keep in touch with me--- Pronto! We just entered into the New Year 2017 and we wish you a Happy and Prosperous New Year! With that said, we all like to make new year resolutions, set new goals, or try to achieve new milestones. But sometimes, we lack the proper guidance, motivation, and direction to achieve those goals. And that’s where we all need a mentor, an influencer who can motivate us and guide us through this realm of success! So, Interested in knowing the key authority figures when it comes to Digital marketing, business management, blogging, and entrepreneurship? Well, we have created a list of 17 influencers who have proved that they are at top of their game and driving the change and innovation in their respective industries. So, follow them, learn from them and try to work upon their advice to make a change in your own life or influence people around you. 1: Grant Cardone Grant Cardone is a sales trainer, a motivational speaker, New York Times Best Selling Author and famous on virtually all the social media platforms. Watch How Grant Cardone Talks a Kid out of Quitting on Himself: [embed]https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=u-GcdVERnp4[/embed] 2: Gary Vaynerchuk Gary Vaynerchuk is the CEO of VaynerMedia. He is a serial entrepreneur, motivational speaker, investor and a famous internet personality. Here are Gary's 6 MINS FOR THE NEXT 60 YEARS OF YOUR LIFE: [embed]https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=stD9RycSXiU[/embed] 3: Neil Patel Neil Patel is a famous internet personality and nearly everyone in the Digital Marketing space knows him well. He is New York Times best-selling author, Co-Founder of KISSmetrics, Crazy Egg, Hello Bar and was recognized as one of the Top 100 Entrepreneurs under the age of 30 by President Obama. 4: Rand Fishkin Rand Fishkin is the founder and former CEO of Moz and one of the biggest influencers when it comes to Search Engine Optimization and Digital Marketing. He is also known as, ‘Wizard Of Moz’. Watch Rand Fishkin discussing the 3 Biggest SEO Myths: [embed]https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZG3WdS5NerQ[/embed] 5: Mark Schaefer Mark Schaefer is a globally-recognized Social Media Strategist, Author, Business Consultant and an educator. His clientele includes brands such as Johnson & Johnson, Adidas, Pfizer, Dell, The U.S Air Force, and the UK Government. In one of his talks, he discusses how blogging saved his life: [embed]https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=whXcpacllq4[/embed] 6: Larry Kim Larry Kim is the founder of Wordstream and an influencer when it comes to the subject of Pay-Per-Click. He is an award-winning author and frequently contributes in publications like Forbes, Inc. and, Search Engine Land. Watch Larry discussing the state of online marketing: [embed]https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9oObUX4c73M[/embed] 7: Wil Reynolds Wil Reynolds holds authority on subjects such as SEO and Digital Marketing. He is a renowned speaker and has been developing SEO strategies for famous Fortune 500 companies since 1999. He is also a founder of an SEO/SEM based consulting firm SEER Interactive. Watch Wil's discussion about Link building: [embed]https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6MkockZtp8I[/embed] 8: Sujan Patel Sujan Patel is a famous Growth Hacker, Content Marketer, Entrepreneur and a speaker. He is also a Co-Founder of a growth marketing agency, Web Profits. Sujan’s Advice On How to Start a Career in Digital Marketing: [embed]https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=auGBuVWA5DE[/embed] 9: Ann Handley Ann Handley is a Co-Founder of ClickZ and also the Chief Content Officer of Marketing Profs. She is a keynote speaker and an influencer on the subject of Digital Marketing. She is also a columnist for Entrepreneur.com. Ann Handley discusses about Creating Content that is engaging: [embed]https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5-EtaUq7F0U[/embed] 10: Brian D. Evans Brian D. Evans is the CEO of Influencive, an online publication that is followed by millions of entrepreneurs all over the world. Brian is also an Inc 500 entrepreneur. 11: Joe Pulizzi Joe Pulizzi is one of the leading online marketing influencer and he’s the one that coined the term, “Content Marketing” back in 2001. Joe is also the Founder of Content Marketing Institute. Joe Pulizzi Shares With Us The Two Little Things that Made All the Difference: [embed]https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91CM9k8BVOc[/embed] 12: Kimra Luna Kimra Luna is the expert when it comes to personal branding and designing online business strategies. She grew her business from 0 to a Million Dollars in less than a year and now teaches young entrepreneurs on how to stand out and captivate their audiences’ attention. Kimra Luna On How to Start a Successful Online Business Fast: [embed]https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j-0ScfsSGSM[/embed] 13: Avinash Kaushik Avinash Kaushik is best known as the Digital Marketing Evangelist for Google, author of two of the most best-selling books on the subject of Web Analytics and Co-Founder of Market Motive. 14: Oli Gardner Oli Gardner is the Co-Founder of Unbounce, and the biggest influencer on the subject of Landing Pages. He is a keynote speaker at different conferences and contributes to famous publications like Moz. 15: Hiten Shah Hiten Shah is the Co-Founder of QuickSprout, CrazyEgg and KISSmetrics. He is one of the most respected names when it comes to industries like Saas, Digital Marketing, and entrepreneurship. Hiten's session about A/B Testing for Startups: [embed]https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Rlc2_ogVT90[/embed] 16: Amy Porterfield Amy Porterfield is a renowned social media strategist who specializes in Facebook Marketing. She is also the co-author of famous book “Facebook Marketing All-In-One for Dummies.” 17: Andy Crestodina Andy Crestodina is the Co-Founder of a Chicago-based Web Design & Development Agency, Orbit Media. He is a famous Web Strategist, keynote speakers at different conferences around the world and author of the book: Content Chemistry: An Illustrated Guide to Content Marketing. In his Talk, Andy discusses How To Use Data to Make Better Content Marketing Decisions: [embed]https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ne3oIMj1mzg[/embed] If your business does not have an online presence, your business does not exist, hence, every business requires a website. But, web development is more than just graphics. Those graphics, color schemes should resonate your brand positioning too. But where to get your company’s website developed? And this is where the rigmarole starts! Web Design Company or a freelancer? It can be a long running debate and a very difficult choice to make. Web Design companies charge a whole lot of money and some major services cannot be found with a freelance contract. Web Design Company VS Freelance Contract – Tough Decision! A professional and an experienced web design company follows proper methods and strategies with the latest technology for developing your website. Web design companies with qualified designers can give you better services rather than a single web designer/freelancer. Selecting a professional web design company over a solo freelancer completely depends on your business and your budget. A proper company can provide more options and solutions due to the diversity of their team. Freelancers can be quick and cheap but there is a high chance that they wouldn’t be able to fix all your issues and it can badly impact the quality of the work delivered. Nonetheless, working with freelancers and web design companies both have their own pros and cons. It can be a tricky decision when it comes to choosing between the two. So we are sharing here five key reasons as to why choose professional Design Company over freelancers: 1: Specialization & the Services Offered A web design company carries a whole team of geniuses with different and latest skill sets. They are each black belts in whatever they do. A web design company is very picky while selecting their employees. A company with 3 designers is more efficient than a bunch of 3 freelancers. A freelancer can be cheap with the price but it’s highly unlikely that they can produce the kind of quality a web design agency can do. There is a certain hierarchy when it comes to web design companies. The whole team is an unmatched technological force responsible for building your web design. Whereas a freelancer can lack in some areas while designing. A web design company is undoubtedly more capable of offering complete and satisfactory services with good quality than a freelancer though no matter how much he/she is experienced and skilled. 2: Who Can Better Utilize The Latest Technology? The best and top Web Design companies do not take quality and testing lightly. There is a set standard of quality development services in web design agencies whereas freelancers mostly rely on free resources and have to compromise on different things. A company works like a library while a freelancer is a book. A library can provide you millions of books on the same subject but a book can only give you limited topics to think on. 3: Communication and Meeting The Deadlines There is a certain level of professionalism when it comes to working with a web firm. The whole web design team listens well and do accordingly to it and can also suggest you better solutions for your business. A freelance web designer is directly communicating with you and this can result in some misunderstandings or sometimes the freelancer might not be able to identify what exactly your needs are and can fail to give further solutions. No one in the business wants to displease the clients. However, bad luck can strike anytime. Due to any issue, a single freelancer may not be able to complete the task in the given time and the worst part is, he/she don’t have any backups as they are solely responsible for completing your task. A company on the other hand always have a contingency plan if any mishap happens. 4: Who is more costly & What’s your Budget? There is this perception that Web design agencies are always expensive in comparison to freelancers. Well, we can agree to disagree but this completely depends on what type of services you want. If you are looking for a normal kind of service than the budget can be low and cheap. But if you want the whole design to be built from scratch and there are some custom-made features that you want on your website, then you need to raise your budget as well. 5: Trust, Reliability, and Efficiency A company has long-term goals, so it strives hard to live up to their reputation. Whereas, most freelancers have temporary goals and take freelance work as a side job. The web design agency has a whole team to give up-to-date information about your work. They inform you on every stage and you can even ask them for updates on any step. It’s very difficult to trust a freelancer in this aspect. Off course, they can be reliable and committed but sometimes they disappear in the mid-project and it can create sudden panic. Working and executing the work is much better in a web design company rather than solo freelancers who works alone and have to cater multiple clients at once. Web Design Company OR a Freelancer? Your call! In a nutshell, no matter what type of web development services you are seeking, just make sure that you read reviews about the company or the freelancers you are choosing for the task. Moreover, it also relies on how much budget you have. Do you require small changes in your current website? Maybe a freelancer might work. But, if you are looking for a complete package with strict deadlines, then a professional Web Design company might be a better option. A web design company is a one-stop shop for your business with a large, experienced team with long –term support. It’s very tempting to hire freelancers on a cheap budget, but it can give you nightmares if they disappear into thin air in the middle of a project. But then again the decision lies with you, your current needs and your budget. So, choose wisely. If you are a web developer or a website owner, and you love to use CMS that are PHP-enabled like Wordpress, Drupal, Joomla or Magento, you should rejoice to hear that according to official PHP timetable, PHP 7 which was released on 3 December 2015, is now ready for the production use. Yes you heard it right! PHP 7 is out to use. We are going to tell all the great things you need to know about PHP 7. As soon as the PHP 7 was released, many developers and programmers started downloading the beta version and start playing around it but found it full of bugs. They reported it and that is how the PHP 7 went behind the curtains until it become fully bug-proof. PHP 7 is a platform that can deliver powerful app, all from cloud to enterprise applications and from mobile to the web Applications. Almost everything comes under the umbrella of PHP 7. This version has the most powerful impact as it decreases the memory consumption with extreme improvements in performance. Let’s take a look at what PHP 7 entails: 1. Don’t Get Confuse in 6 or 7 The version PHP 5.6 renamed to PHP 7. As PHP 6 already existed, developers tend to do some experimental project but this version of PHP never reached to the production phase. After some dispute, the PHP official development team came to a conclusion and they decided that they will name this new version to PHP 7 and will omit PHP 6 name completely. The decision helped the users to stay away from mixing up the previously attempted experiment with the latest development. 2. PHPNG, the New Core After the release of PHP 4 in 1999, the platform was powered by the Zend engine till now. Zend, the Zend Framework, which supports PHP 7, is an open source execution engine and is written in C language. It is used to interpret the PHP language. The PHP 5.X uses the Zend Engine II that was used to enhance the functionality of the previous engine. Whereas the PHP 7 uses the Zend Engine with a code name of PHPNG (Next Generation). 3. Double the Speed There are many improvements which can be seen when it comes to new PHPNG Engine, but the most significant feature is the improvement in the performance. The PHPNG is the new structure of the Zend Engine thus, we can see optimized memory usage. By using PHP7, you will need fewer servers to serve the same amount of users with the increased time of execution of code. The below graph is the performance benchmarks that Zend Performance Team provides. 4. Power of Error Handling Handling the catchable fatal errors is not an easy task for PHP coders and never have been. The only solution to handle these fatal errors is to use Exceptions.This new Zend Engine provides the facility for the PHP developers to handle the errors easily without the system failure at the run time which is quite unprofessional. The new EngineException objects in new Zend Engine don't extend the Exception Base Class of previous versions. This object shows that the new system is using the interfaces and data from earlier versions but producing the different kinds of exceptions in error handling: the Traditional and the Engine Exceptions. PHP 7 enables PHP programmers to catch both types of exceptions by introducing the new Parent Class Called BaseException. The code and the result emerged because of the fatal errors due to the previous versions is shown below: The new changings are: 5. 64-Bit Windows Systems Support Native environment of PHP is Linux because the PHP is a prominent member of the LAMP stack. But it is not impossible to run PHP to run on Windows system. There are two types of bit systems of Windows X86 and X64. The PHP 5.X don't provide the support to X64 bit version of Windows. So PHP 7 introduced the support to X64 bit Windows system. PHP 7 now allows you to run the language on your 64-bit Windows system. Both 64-bit integers and large files are supported by PHP 7. 6. New Spaceship (<=>) and Null Coalescing (??) Operators The official name for Spaceship operator is Combined Comparison Operator. The notation of this operator is like a simplified spaceship like this <=>. This operator gives result 0 if both left-hand operand and right-hand operand are equal, returns 1 if the left operand is greater than right operand and -1 if the left operand is greater than the right operand. This three-way comparison operator not only exist in PHP but also in other programming languages like Perl and Ruby. The Null Coalescing - denoted as (??), used to check if the value exists or not, if the value does not exist then it returns a default value and if the value does exist it will return the left operand, and right operand returned if the value doesn't exist or may be any other case. The below code snippet shows how this new operator reduces the time spent on basic declarations: 7. Enables Accurate Type Declarations The new PHP 7 allows developers and programmers that they can intensify the quality of their code by using the correct return type declarations so that the unintended return values can prevented. The image shows a simple use case foo() function. This feature is supposed to return an array. There are more complicated examples which show the return type declarations. PHP 7 have introduced four new types of declarations for scalar values to increase the features even more. The types are - int, float, string and bool. These new scalar types allow the PHP developers to denote the integers, floats, strings or booleans to get returned. 8. Add Anonymous Classes PHP 7 enables the developers to use OOP concept and to use anonymous classes. The concept already exists and used in many Object-oriented languages like C# and Java. The anonymous class - as defined by the name- are the classes with no names. But the object that instantiates has same functionality as an object of a named class. If we talk about the syntax which is same as what we were using in traditional PHP classes the only difference is the name, which is missing. The advantage of using anonymous class is that it can increase the speed of code and execution time as well, if and only if these classes used in an excellent way. And in the case when a class doesn’t need to be documented. 9. Imports from the Same Namespace The Group Use Declarations- is indeed a bless feature for the developers who want to import many classes from the same namespace when required. This new syntax helped the developers by cutting the babbling of words, makes the code neat and clean and easier and save the typing time. Using Group Use Declarations makes it easy and clean for you to read through and debug codes as it helps the developers to identify the imports of the same namespace in a module. Conclusion PHP 7 has been introduced with a goal to free up space which leads to improvement. It was crucial to get rid of many deprecated functionalities , old and unsupported Server APIs and extensions to increase the speed and free up space. This clean up provides more security by removing items that have deprecated for a while in PHP 5 and not in use for a long time. PHP 7 can break the code if your app is running on older version of PHP. This article helps you to get to the conclusion that how advance the PHP 7 is. And in next versions, you will see more enhancements and new improvements which would be more exciting for the developers and programmers who love to play with PHP code. You might then come across some bugs but wait! That's how the system tested and that's how you will learn more and more and can become PHP champ! Like! Share! Subscribe! And tell us in the comment section below any cool feature that you love about PHP 7. Creating a website seems like a daunting task because maybe you are not sure where to begin. So, in this article we will assist you in planning, creating and most probably launching your website within 3 days. You don’t need to be an IT geek or a professional website developer to learn how to build a website in 3 days from now. And it’s not necessary that you should know how to code or manage host/servers. A lot of websites are built through drag and drop website builders. First, you have to get the notion aside that you can’t build a website. You can do it! A lot of website creation platforms have emerged that enables you to build websites without knowing how to code. You just have to use your mouse and drag a boxful of things instead of coding and creating them. Insert your texts, videos, images and click publish. That’s it. Some DIY Website Building Tools: Ucoz Weebly Wix DoodleKit Website Builder Hiring a Professional Website Design & Development Agency: If website builder tools are not cutting for you, you can always hire a professional if your budget permits it. There are 3 main factors to look for before hiring a professional website design and development company: 1: How soon can they start? It completely depends on the individual or the company and their current workload. The best approach is to share your needs in detail with them and then let them tell how they will solve it and in what timeframe. You can then select a service provider based on many factors like quality of past work, timeline, and cost. 2: How much time required for a website to review? There should be a three stage approach in any professional website design and development agency. The process begins with defining the solutions they’ll be providing. Then it’s the design phase where they mock up as how all pages of your website would look across all devices and finally the last stage, development, which includes the building of the website. The website is then sent to the client for the review. 3: How soon can they launch it? This is the final phase for you as well as the development company. It is called the “modification period”. This typically includes change requests for minor bugs and content entry. Any professional web design and development agency doesn't limit the website launching to a long number of weeks but it can take as long as you need to perfect your website. Typically websites can take around 14 weeks from start to launch. But you can easily cut down this long period if you’re prepared with the proper planning. By following the proper protocol, you can spend less time building your website and more time building your business or flourishing your company. Ready? So let’s do this. But before that, you need to keep in mind some basic items which are required to make a website. 1: Domain Name 2: Business Email Address 3: Website Building Software 4: Website Hosting 5: Template Design 6: Content and high-quality images 7: Google Analytics Day 1: Creating an Outline Sit with pen and papers. Draw out the plan on the paper and decide the end goal in your mind. Making a plan is very essential. If you have a great plan, you will end up with a great website. A solid plan includes the structure of your website. Do some research on the competitors’ website and get ideas from them. Brainstorm the following questions: What do you want the desired outcome from your website? Who will be the targeted audience or visitors? What information do you want to be displayed on the website? What actions would you like the visitor to take on your website? Your website is not just about you. Write as many details as you can to reach the desired outcomes. Day 2: Creating the Site Domain Name & Hosting The website is the home of the business and domain is the homes address and your hosting account is the land on which the website files will be stored. You can purchase the domain name from a couple of websites. Select a name which is easy to share. Try to use .com or any other relevant TLD available. You can even purchase the domain name and host from the same company. Install the Platform and Customize It Hosting Companies offers easy and one-click installation option of website development platforms like Wordpress and Magento etc. After successful installation, select the built-in themes available or the premium themes. After getting done with the theme, install and activate it. Add your brand identity in it, make changes, add content/products, add widgets, and upload logo. Make your website chic and unique. It is the phase where you can let your imagination and creativity run wild. Two days down, One day left. Day 3: Launch It Congratulations! It’s the big day for you. Finally, it’s the day to launch your website. But before doing that, make sure your website is mobile-friendly and SEO optimized. Once you are done with the building and optimizing, make your site live on the domain. Now it’s time to tell people about it. Create your social media brand launch strategy, start a conversation within your field or industry, ask friends to share the words, build awareness for the brand and boost your website's traffic. There are some key points to remember: Don’t forget to create Site Map and Google Webmaster Account and submit the website to Google Add Google Analytics on your website to track the visitors All Set To Start? Just follow these easy steps and you will be able to launch your own website within 3 days (if everything went smooth) by yourself or from any professional website design and development agency. We understand that the idea of building a website in 3 days might seem utopian but it's not impossible. So, get started now! Overview & Guide to App Development for Healthcare Technology is gradually transforming every venue of your life, beginning with how you wake up to how you live longer. Technology controls your food habits, fitness habits, and even your lifestyle habits. Many of you tend to rely on technology to perform menial tasks that would otherwise take more time. With technology-oriented solutions, productivity has been enhanced. Among others, the healthcare industry is implementing digital technologies and using mobile devices for the development of healthcare apps. MHealth (refers to mobile health) is a general term used for the application of mobile technologies and devices (smartphones, wearables, tablets) in medical and public health practice. The development of mobile apps for healthcare provides several benefits. Imagine that in 2017 around 3.7 billion apps were downloaded offering mHealth mobility solutions. The heavy use of smartphones and smartwatches has contributed even greater growth to the mobile health consumer app market. Moreover, FDA cited that by 2018, 1.7 billion smartphone users will adopt mobile apps for healthcare. Therefore, this is certainly the right time to develop mobile apps for healthcare. How to Design and Develop a Mobile Health Application The use of technology to improve healthcare in amazing and meaningful ways is an advanced task that requires cooperation and participation from various parties. Best healthcare app development ideas need to undergo medical and ethical analysis after presenting a proposal to the development core. Design and development must adhere strictly to all regulations developed and enforced by laws protecting critical health information in order to prevent data breaches. To build a successful medical mobile app, the patient's best interests should be a primary concern. Effective medical apps must be developed in a way that they can be easily adopted, and developers should understand that the ultimate goal of any app is to assist its users. Present State of Healthcare Mobile Apps Consumer tests conducted in the U.S. report that a quarter of adults in the U.S. are using one or more health tracking apps and a third of physicians have suggested an app to a patient in the previous year. Internationally, around a billion smartphone users consume a health or wellness app, and this stat is predicted to triple in the coming years. App stores already have over 165,000 health apps and as this innovative technology-enabled type of healthcare continues to grow, hospitals and other relevant stakeholders have started developing medical mobile apps to offer patients new, more helpful ways to effectively collect and share health-related information. Not all of these digital interventions are successful, however. Due to poor user experience, confusing user interfaces, and unsatisfying functionality, many medical mobile apps do not live up to customer requirements. To create an incredible mobile app for patient care, it is important to understand where the development of hospital apps has so far failed. The primary weaknesses of many apps currently on the market are: An unclear structure which does not resolve a particular problem Low user-friendliness Absence of clinical inputs Refusal to comply with strict privacy regulations and security practices Latest Must-Have Features of Healthcare Mobile Apps We have observed an enormous level of growth in the healthcare industry over the past few decades. Thanks to mobile healthcare apps which not only refined our health-related needs but also helped us to maintain our health effortlessly with just a few clicks. The constant evolution of the mobile healthcare app's operating capabilities has brought about a huge improvement & progress in the healthcare unit. As according to Statista, it is being predicted that; “Digital health market is expected to reach 206 billion U.S. dollars by 2020 specifically by mobile and wireless.” So, if you are developing a healthcare mobile app, include these features in your app. They will ensure the success to your app: Blockchain – Healthcare transformation The blockchain is a leading technology that has not only transformed the fintech industry, but has also changed the world the of healthcare industry. Incorporating Blockchain technology into the mobile healthcare app will leave patients with decent & synchronized healthcare ecosystem and assure high-end security & confidentiality for patient data. Blockchain actually works efficiently on the established cryptographic network that establishes a secure supply chain to secure it from any fraud. The robust & protected Blockchain network will surely take safety & security of the mobile healthcare app a step ahead of user expectations. Telemedicine Services Long appointments for hospital visits or doctor meetings are the big concern in the healthcare industry. This scarcity of medical healthcare facilities often gives rise to health deterioration. But Telemedicine has addressed this concern extensively. Telemedicine is an innovative feature which takes the app's functionality a step ahead. This feature helps ensure a network for patients & doctors in which they can easily manage their doctor visits & appointments through remote communication. It is the latest healthcare mobile apps trends. With the help of this technological feature, doctors can look deeply through mobile devices to their patients without any visit. Now the patient can be diagnosed with their sickness through a video call process. Telemedicine helps patients receive medical attention from their doctors without visiting a hospital or clinic. Data Security for Healthcare Apps The greatest concern typically arises after installing or using the healthcare app on mobile phones is data security. Being a healthcare mobile app development company, you must ensure that your patient has complete data security including personal information, login credentials, financial data & credentials, and much more. In this respect, the latest mobile health apps are constrained by specific rules and regulations that help companies protect patient data. The high-end operating capabilities of mobile healthcare apps are always focused on data encryption and risk management. A highly secured app will thus provide doctors with accessibility in a secure manner. Healthcare Cloud-Based Solution The introduction of mobile healthcare apps has made the complex process of visiting a doctor, advising on health issues an easy task. Thanks to cloud-based support from the mobile apps. Cloud computing services not only enable patients to access information anytime and anywhere but also provide them with various benefits. Like, Electronic records via which cloud computing healthcare assistance guarantee's an easy and synced archive of patient records and medical images. Through Health Data Analytics, you can easily track data in the cloud with more personalized care. And with Simplified communication cloud computing helps to store data, mobile devices or any healthcare app that supports cloud computing will speed things up and ensure streamlined communication even at a distance. Among the best ideas for healthcare apps, cloud-based solution are the best ones. Connecting Wearable Devices The year 2017 left us with several notable technological development & ideas that are still dominant in the digital & health industry as well. One of them is IoMT (Medical Things Internet), this is essentially a process of connecting your devices over the internet. This concept of a connecting device over the internet has introduced a new device in the digital space that is 'Wearable Device. The higher number of audiences agree that wearable devices such as fitness bands & activity tracker have enabled them to care for their health concerns seamlessly. These devices automated their health-related issues without going heavy in their pocket. Several technically graded wearable devices and mobile apps include high-end operating features that quickly monitor significant issues including heart rate, blood pressure, sugar level, and much more. Moreover, it provides a seamless medium where medical reports can be readily available anywhere, anytime. Types of Healthcare Apps There are 7 different categories under which mobile apps for health care fall into. Although there may be more types, here we will put the emphasis on the main parent categories and see how each of them works. 1. Emergency/Urgent Care Apps These apps prove to be extremely useful in emergency situations. Offering patients and general consumers with information including the location of the nearest clinic or hospital, directions, estimated travel time and waiting time, and physician availability at that location, such apps help patients hit the right hospital as quickly as possible. 2. Medication Tracking Apps This kind of apps motivates patients to follow their prescription regimen by tracking their doses, time intervals, meals, and reminding them to take medicine timely. Such medication tracking apps also prove to be among the best and most useful healthcare apps. 3. Apps for Maintaining a Healthy Lifestyle Apps falling into this category tend to help educate patients, keeping them on schedule with a pregnancy tracker for appointments and care. Put it simply, this category includes health apps for pregnancy and baby development, diet monitoring apps, healthy nutrition, exercise manuals and fitness tracking apps. 4. Doctor Related Apps Such apps are intended for those directly involved in the healthcare industry, including hospitals, independent physicians, and other healthcare professionals. Doctor apps are designed to store patient-specific information, offer good access to medical records, pharmaceutical recommendations, and pill prescriptions depending on the patient's current health status. 5. Women’s Health and Menstruation Tracking Apps These apps are available specifically for women, enabling them to schedule appointments with doctors and obtain information related to the menstrual cycle, pregnancy, fertility, breastfeeding, child care, etc. 6. Medical & Diagnostic Assistant Apps These kinds of medical app features generally offer additional access to personal health records, including electronic charts review, digital imaging (X-Ray), laboratory test details and results, and information about specific symptoms. 7. General Hospital Apps Hospital mobile app features can highlight branding and messaging. This sort of healthcare apps typically includes hospital information, hospital virtual tour, list of doctors and their availability, types of health services offered, and waiting lists for ER. Cost and Time Estimation for Healthcare App Development You must be wondering how much does it cost to develop an app for healthcare? A health or medical app's price will depend greatly on the nature of the app and the number of hours spent developing it. The time and healthcare apps cost for every medical app development company offering medical app creation services differ. Making a mobile health app for Android will approximately take 40-50 days, and developing an app for the iOS platform will require the same amount of days. It will take about 20-25 days to design both operating systems. As for cost estimation, the cost will vary depending on the requirement and the complexity of the app. If you want our help with developing a mHealth app or personal healthcare app for your concept, we're all pleased to provide cost estimates for your project. Contact us and we will get in touch with you within 16 hours. The consultation is completely cost-free. Why Mobile Apps are Beneficial for Healthcare Businesses? The technology advances & innovations undoubtedly put a stop to the endless lines in the hospital hall, patients' desperation to get inside the doctor's chamber, and hurdles to arrange diagnostic tests that require proper monitoring of past health conditions. Mobile healthcare apps devoted entirely to multiple categories including emergency care, healthy lifestyle and fitness, general hospital appointment, clinical and diagnostic consultants, and medication tracking not only disrupt the delivery of healthcare but also help clinicians/physicians to take proactive decisions. Here are the top benefits of using mobile apps for healthcare businesses: Great Blessing in Remote Regions We are living in the internet era today where smartphones are reaching every nook and corner, individuals living in rural areas can also expect to get the best health services. Healthcare apps assist them to make an appointment with doctors and purchase medicines directly without having to travel to the hospital. Moreover, they can also get information about important healthcare tips from time to time through push notifications. Boon for Doctors and Medical Staff Healthcare apps have become a boon for hospital-associated doctors, nurses and various other medical staff. The apps help to update doctors about their patients' health condition. Indeed, even the doctors ' prescription has been digitized, which means it can be accessed on your device. It helps medical professionals to examine all your reports through the app, making it much easier to make quick and appropriate decisions in emergency cases. The information can be traded within no time. The apps adequately prepare a customized approach to treat each patient as every ailing person needs special care. Decrease the Risk of Misdiagnosis Any flaw in a patient's medical diagnosis can cause severe damage to a patient's health condition. Mobile healthcare apps with intelligent diagnostic functionality can minimize error rates and provide drug predictions. The feature is not constrained to accurate diagnosis, but also help physicians to use cloud-based mobile applications to store patient records. Hence, errors resulting from poor deduction from patient history or mixed/missing records can be minimized to a great extent. The Rise of New Business Models and Opportunities It's not that the healthcare apps showed their special emphasis on doctors and patient, but it also offered new business models and opportunities. The medical staff no longer use outdated practices, but instead mobile apps for making referrals. This is essentially a referral management system based on the cloud. They can also write resourceful referrals, which in turn affect healthcare organizations to digitally promote themselves through the upsurge in patient information. Recently, the healthcare industry's exposure has extended and become much diversified by leaps and bounds. People install healthcare apps for multiple purposes such as weight reduction, women's health and pregnancy care, elderly healthcare, etc. which opens up new vibrant opportunities in the process. Hassle-Free Payment of Bills Before the introduction of healthcare apps, paying for medical expanses wasn't that easy. You don't need to stand in a queue to pay the bill; but with a highly secured payment gateway integration, the app is supported allowing users to pay the amount swiftly. In fact, you may also pay your bill on time and select a payment plan accordingly. If you forget to make the deposit, you will receive a notification as a reminder to do what is necessary. There are other payment options, such as paying by debit or credit card or using online banking in addition to the mobile wallet app. Fifth generation cellular technology Faster speeds on smartphones and other devices than ever before Ability to carry massive amounts of data with speeds of up to 1GBps Where’s 5G available right now? In Chicago, though patchy. What 5G phones are available? Next-generation connectivity provided by Motorola's 5G Moto Mod in the US In the UK, on 5G phones: the Samsung Galaxy S10 5G, Oppo Reno 5G, OnePlus 7 Pro 5G, and the LG V50 ThinQ 5G. How fast is 5G? A hundred times faster than the current 4G technology When will it fully launch? In 2020. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=E0G2pWacv6s The real-estate market is full of competition. You attempt different approaches to get ahead of your competitors. There are multiple benefits to native mobile app development. You may be able to enhance your service, attract real estate agents to your website, and add new offers. Another thing you could attempt is to build a mobile application and create value that your competitors can only dream of. Just a few decades ago, buying a house or finding an apartment for rent people traveled to real estate companies as they only had access to various listing services. Or people were forced to count on newspapers. How's things going now? The Internet has pioneered the hunting of real estate beyond what one can imagine. In our daily life, a mobile phone is as much a necessity as the air we breathe. A mobile device is more than just a computer, it's always with the user. According to Statista, the number of smartphone consumers globally today is about 2.5 billion, and the trend is that this amount is increasing year by year. Everything is moving towards digitization and many professionals need to adapt to these changes. Sometimes to increase profit and sometimes to continue professional activities at all. There are many reasons to use mobile apps in a real estate company. People no longer have to purchase the newspaper to find a home or apartment; all they need is an internet connection and house purchasing applications. Let Us See Why a Real Estate Business Needs an App The customer has no time- Many customers lack time and cannot wander around searching houses. Lack of information- Conventional way of hunting for a property includes asking friends and family members. Usually, customers consult people around to discover comfortable yet well-built home for themselves. However, this idea does not always work. Budget-Several people don't get houses in their budget, and that's the reason why they use real estate applications. How to discover the right location in the budget and that as quickly as possible? Without mobile apps for real estate, it is not possible. Moreover, real estate agents charge a fair quantity that adds to the price. Reasons Why Creating Real Estate App Is Beneficial For Your Business Gone are the days when people had to use a phone book or newspaper to look up a business. To keep up with the emerging market requirements of small and medium-sized enterprises, businesses must adapt to the worldwide mobile movement. The bottom line is that you need to have an app for your business to the boom where the real estate sphere is no exemption. Developing a mobile app for your real estate sales company can bring multiple advantages and ROI to you like never before. In fact, there are some best free apps for small business owners to try. Even the app development cost for small business isn’t as heavy on pockets as it is assumed. If you need more convincing, here are five reasons why your real estate sales company will begin to achieve more advantages with a mobile app. Provide customers with a remarkable value like never before Aside from boosting your online presence and extending your marketing reach, your mobile app can do so much more. It can add or generate value for your customers and give your business a positive impression, which in turn will translate into a good ROI. Imagine a useful app where your customers can maintain all their favorite properties in one place, revisiting them when they are willing to make a decision. In addition, having a mobile app opens up the opportunity for customers to interact and communicate easily with your business— making it more valuable to them. A great idea is to add a booking feature to your app. This is where customers can book appointments through a built-in booking form and where you can set availability to customers. Your mobile application can directly translate into better sales, enhanced consumer perception and general healthier customer experience. Build your brand You don't have to spend heavily on advertisements any longer as creating a helpful mobile app alone can boost your brand's awareness and allure tremendously. An app with satisfying features is enough to fascinate your crowd. It even works better as a marketing tool than setting up a costly billboard — just go and create a functional app, and you should be great to go. Apps offer your brand more presence than your website can because, unlike a browser bookmark, your app is always noticeable on people's mobile screens — this contributes to customer loyalty as your business is always in front of them and just a tap away. Connect better with customers Interaction is a huge component of every company, particularly in real estate. And an app will be useful for that. Your mobile app can be used as a system for providing customer support and is an outstanding way to encourage individuals to contact you or offer feedback. Mobile apps are the solution to increased customer satisfaction and loyalty. They are the gateway for your customers to communicate with your business or buy your real estate services. If you are unreachable, you tend to lose an important number of high-quality leads. Imagine sending targeted push notifications to a group of users when new listings become available. This kind of strategy will immediately quadruple the number of leads you will receive! A mobile app allows this kind of reach. Stand above the competition A mobile app for your company will assist in distinguishing you from your competitors. While some of your competitors choose not to take advantage of the power of mobile apps, you can use this efficient communication and marketing tool to capture a bigger part of the estate market. With a full proof digital marketing strategy, you will be able to create a customer experience that will offer prospective home buyers or sellers value, and a run for their cash to your competitors. More accurately target your market It has now become easier and quicker to target important clients with location-specific and time-sensitive messages through mobile apps. This type of strategy will help you reduce your expenditure, narrow your focus and deliver targeted advertisements to customers at the right location and moment. Furthermore, your mobile app can provide you with valuable customer information through an in-app data capture form. It can include their demographics, geographic locations, and preferences that can assist you fulfill individual requirements. You could also use GEO listings where you can feature location-based properties in specified categories. GEO tagging enables users to discover nearby properties. Because you market more directly, you will be able to provide helpful data and filter out only the highest quality leads. How Do Real Estate Applications Make Money? Here are certain ways through which real state mobile apps can make enough money. Subscription Fees for Featuring on Application Users can purchase monthly or annual packages to be mentioned on your application. The best option here is to provide a free trial period, so a person can see if this model is suitable for their needs. If yes, they may choose to upgrade the subscription for a certain payment. Charge Fees to Sellers Real property applications can earn by charging fees to sellers. Property owners who exhibit their property information have to pay the app development company a certain price. The charges may be on a monthly basis. The fee is determined from the type of land/property. Commercial property has to pay different fees. Residential properties must pay separate charges. Sell Advertisements Your real estate website may also sell advertising space to various companies such as mortgage lenders, interior designers, contractors, distributors, and insurance experts. For instance, Zillow takes charges from mortgage lenders based on price per click or price per thousand impressions. Fee for Additional Valuable Features Another option is to charge for such extra features as realtors analytics, notifications, online booking, etc. Employ Virtual Agents Virtual agents are individuals who promote the services of your real estate website with the assistance of various tools. The virtual agent is responsible for submitting estate owners ' names and phone numbers. After that, the unique advisors will contact them. If these individuals place their listing on your app, a commission will be given to the virtual agent who introduced them. Tools and Latest Features to Add to a Real Estate Mobile App A mobile application helps you make the most of the functions available for the smartphone, covering tasks that need to be resolved quickly on the go. There’s no reason why you shouldn’t boost your real estate business with app. Here's a short summary of the features that the finest real estate applications should have. Interactive Map feature The mapping technology enables you to see the entire image of listings in the area while driving around or sitting in a chair. Commercial real estate applications and various listing services such as Trulia and Zillow use GPS-based search technology to demonstrate which properties are for sale or sold in a certain geographical area. With this feature, the real estate app makes home searching very simple. Using the camera of a smartphone This function enables you to create floor plans rapidly by moving your phone around the room and using the camera. Viewing 3D space, editing floor plans in a single tap, adding objects, furnishing home-this is a treasure trove for real estate agents. Another way to use the camera in real estate agents and buyers applications is for search, e.g. in HomeSnap where you can take a picture of any house with your smartphone and check estimated value, number of rooms, interior pictures and other information. 3D VR tours VR technology is an incredibly helpful offer in the real estate sector. Apps with VR tours allow individuals to look around a home without having to visit it in person, which saves a lot of time and enables them to see more properties with less effort. Signing documents online When it comes to having documents signed, which realtors have to do continuously, the electronic signature function app is the quickest way to do it on the go. It's also good to have an app that can link to cloud facilities like Dropbox, Evernote, Google Drive to import and save files, monitor their status, and send reminders. Mortgage calculator A realtor’s app that can provide accurate information on mortgage rates and payments is the ideal tool when a real estate agent wants to find out the cost of the home or determine which loan is more appropriate for the client. Zillow's mortgage calculator is a good illustration of this function that may function. Keeping real estate team organized CRM and realtors task management applications can increase the productivity of your real estate team. With such an app, you can see what each agent is working on, sends notifications about new leads to each team member's phone, set to-do's and schedule reminders. Push Notifications Push notifications obtain two most significant objectives. First, they retain customers and remind them of your app so that they use your application more frequently. Second, they enable you to reach users and alert them of important events such as: Price modifications New properties in an area Any property updates. Push notifications must be customized: send only relevant messages that will add value to customers. Summing Up Creating your mobile app is among the most rewarding solutions for gaining an edge over your competitors. There are various best platforms available in the market for building a mobile app and they offer negotiable app development cost for real estate. The successful launch of your mobile app puts you at the cutting edge of the property market, retains customer loyalty and, overall, increases the quality and quantity of the sales lead you can produce. If you decide to develop a custom mobile app with more flexibility and features, you can reap better benefits. With innovative thinking, focusing on targeting the needs of your users and solving potential problems, an app can go a long way to achieving your business goals. The idea is that the real estate company should strive for development to persist on the wave of new technologies and respond to developments that can make it more effective. While websites have become the norm for home searching, a real estate app opens up enormous possibilities and can push your enterprise to a new level. Staff augmentation is rapidly becoming a buzzword in the IT job market. Since the world is moving at a quicker pace, businesses might experience a new barrier to their recruiting route by hiring permanent employees to meet the company's current and future requirements. The global market for skilled talent has been tightening for years. This often leads to endless months of recruitment procedures for positions including interviewing, testing, etc., which brings you back to square one. A market for extremely qualified professionals is quite restrictive, so staffing difficulties have become a routine for many organizations around the globe. To overcome this challenge, staff augmentation is the solution. Designed to address business needs, it provides companies with experts with the right education, experience, and skill set. What Staff Augmentation Actually Is Staff augmentation is a way to contractually hire skilled resources instead of permanently hiring them. Simply put, you're bringing highly skilled and qualified employees from a staff augmentation company to provide you with the edge to meet your project objectives. Staff augmentation as an industry buzzword helps businesses to grow their teams without any costs involved. Technical or non-technical resources function along with your internal staff throughout the duration of your project; in fact, they may also work from their workplace or home. Knowing staff augmentation process flow helps you to evaluate your current team members, enabling you to decide whether or not to employ an external resource. To keep things simple for you, we have precisely defined what staff augmentation is. “An immediate solution to satisfy your adhoc & temporary staff requirement for a prompt turnaround of projects.” Currently, staff augmentation services are a popular way to employ a dedicated workforce. In fact, Resource Augmentation/Staff Outsourcing /Resource Outsourcing / Project Outsourcing / FTE are almost the same concepts with miniscule differences in terms of execution, costing or legislations. Companies are now recruiting industry specialists via staff outsourcing to meet their aggressive project deadlines and requirements. It is flexible and viable for both employers and employees to indulge on a project-only basis. A resource engagement differs from a short-term to a long-term basis. To remain competitive in a diversified marketplace, you need top-notch talent that commands a strong grip on all market trends to stay head-to-head with industry best practices. How Staff Augmentation Actually Works Staff augmentation works almost like any outsourcing strategy that you may encounter. But still, it's quite different. Here’s how. Consider if you are going to onboard a resource from any staff augmentation business. Firstly, you need to fully explain your project along with its development and deployment phase. You are then needed to give the job description (JD) and resource expectations in terms of performance, working hours, duration, etc. After you have given the job details, the staff augmentation company ensures complete integration with your project. They will get you the greatest talent for that job available in the market. How IT Staff Outsourcing Works To make things clear, we have defined the process in brief steps: 1. Identify what you need First, you need to understand who to look for before you start searching for applicants to join your team. You need to identify the precise number of individuals you want to employ and candidate specifications. These should include abilities, qualifications, years of experience, and so on. 2. Find & Review Once you properly understand who you want to hire, the next step is to start the search process. Find and review appropriate applicants. Conduct interviews and have them pass tests to assure that they are suitably eligible to join your team. 3. Integrate new team members It's a mistake to assume that all the hard work is done once you've signed contracts with the new team members. The onboarding procedure is ahead of you, you should continue to support your new employees to successfully integrate them into your team. Throughout that time, they should meet other team members, learn your company's main processes, procedures, values, and rules. They should get comfortable in the new workplace. 4. Support Persistently After the integration phase, you must continue to provide ongoing support to your new staff. Picking up feedback and building potent relationships with them is essential to efficient cooperation. How Staff Augmentation Can Help Your Business Remotely More and more businesses are turning to staff augmentation in order to fit the time and budget constraints. No freelancers or in-house team can beat the benefits of staff augmentation. Operational Efficiency Some small companies incur elevated operating expenses, particularly during lean periods, with minuscule return on investment. Staff augmentation supports operational efficiency by enabling flexible work platforms. When businesses partner with supplying organizations, they do not have to bear the infrastructural expenses of constructing and conducting activities at a new place. The experts either work remotely or from the supplying companies ' workspaces. Despite remote work, staff is fully accountable to the employing company and its management. In order to minimize infrastructure expenses, the costs of operating offshore are considerably reduced. Hire on the Go One of the main benefits of staff is its flexibility. This enables companies to employ staff to meet short-term requirements. Companies can replace their permanent employees with qualified professionals for a specific period of time to fit the need of the hour. This efficient hiring prevents companies from incurring additional hiring expenses, such as employee provident fund and health benefits. On the contrary, it also provides professionals the flexibility to work on a project basis and only participate in projects of their choice and excellence. This creates a win for both parties, yielding mutual benefit. This fills the gap between professional skills demand and supply in a cost-effective and efficient way. Hence, staff augmentation serves the interests of employees and employers in a creative manner by enabling recruitment on the go. Caters to Skilled Professionals Staff augmentation as a means of short-term recruitment offers companies with access to a very large pool of qualified professionals. Permanent hiring restricts the ability of a company to leverage the available market talent. On the other side, it aims for greater hiring of millennials with extensive skill training. Its recruits are mostly domain-centric and hence the methods they carry to the ground are distinctive and useful. Moreover, it helps companies to interact with skilled experts who may not be in a financial state to hire on permanent roles but may benefit from their skills for a brief project. Thus, by allowing the hiring of specific skill sets, staff augmentation improves any company's talent pool. Cuts Down Overhead Costs Extending the significance of the above point, staff augmentation guarantees a cost-effective means of leveraging from specific skill sets. Since experts are recruited for a specific project, the company does not have to endure the long-term cost. Hiring project specific recruitment enables businesses to pay for the skill only during the specified period. Furthermore, this [REDACTED_SECRET] talent offers an edge over all competitive brands by adding domain-centered expertise to the operational framework. The existence of external talent also enables companies to reach larger markets by showcasing the pool of talent available to them. This brings the companies a double victory. First, they get access to an enormous talent at the fraction of a traditional recruiting cost. Secondly, this talent pool brings them a greater position compared to their competitors who lack such flexibility in hiring. Expansion and Adaptation Flexible hiring encourages companies to expand their operations on a trial basis without spending in a full-fledged workforce. Companies often aspire to ramp up their businesses and benefit from the prevailing market circumstances. The associated risks of failure and the drowning of investments, however, serve as an obstacle to such scaling. Staff augmentation comes to the support of such companies. By encouraging businesses to hire on a project basis to test their acceptability in the new industries, it opens new opportunities for firms desiring expansion. In addition to the expansion, such flexible hiring enables businesses to keep up with the changing market conditions. With new skills and capabilities obtained by millennials day after day, market demand is constantly evolving. Companies unable to react to such changes succumb to failure. Therefore, staff augmentation equips businesses with responsiveness. This enables them to respond to changing conditions by using project-specific workers to meet new standards. Put Forward Contemporary Perspectives Although it's true that experience comes with age, the millennial generation has a lot to offer in terms of modern worldviews. Having a specific network of employees often results in a stagnation of opinions and thoughts for business development and growing revenues. The newly evolving enterprise demands often call for innovative means to achieve results. Accordingly, staff augmentation encourages companies to participate with the outlook of a diverse set of experts than to operate time and time again with a box of recycled thoughts. Project-specific hiring provides companies with the capacity to leverage new concepts to propel their operations. Sustained Authority While businesses leverage from hired professionals, they still keep control over their job and management. In contrast to project outsourcing where the entire work of a project is transferred to an external unit, staff augmentation assures that only the human resource is obtained from an external agency, while the management is still in hand. This management control helps companies to retain a stronghold over their projects and shape them in any required manner. Project outsourcing often leaves parent businesses out of any say in project management and execution. It helps prevent this aberration by allowing parent companies to remain in charge of the final call. Conclusion Software development staff augmentation has moved beyond its inception stage. It is readily identified as an alternative staff outsourcing model. Companies benefit from this flexible recruitment by leveraging professional competencies with extensive skill sets in a cost-effective and productive way. It stands as an effective bridge guaranteeing an ideal pathway of talent for companies that are available for a specific time period. IT outsourcing is a procedure involving the delegation of components of a web-based application development process. Many outsourced services such as testing, coding, and design can be used in production, although outsourcing entails risks triggered by the client's low degree of control. That's why a business decides on staff augmentation vs. managed services. Departments of information technology that need to introduce new projects will need to outsource them to fulfill their objectives as planned. IT outsourcing can be used to supplement the skills of permanent employees. The two models used to strengthen the workforce include IT-managed services vs staff augmentation. They are two trusted alternatives that should be thoroughly evaluated and understood before selecting one that works well with the chosen projects to meet the goals. First, we’ll give you a brief comparison like the description of both the models: The Orientation of Staff Augmentation Staff augmentation developed from a need to tackle short-term resource constraints, budgetary pressures, and headcount requirements. This method served the organization greatest when skills were needed for immediate and short-term commitments. IT and operating executives used external resources to fill inner resource gaps while avoiding recruiting individuals in fixed roles. When the project was finished, the external resource would no longer be on the budget of the manager. Most of the short-term experts work remotely or from the augmentation Company's premises, thus also reducing infrastructure expenses. In addition to being cost-effective, it prevents the undue burden and time wastage of going through a strict recruitment drive. Rapid growth in staff augmentation (ten billion of dollars worldwide) is due to various market factors, such as profusion of experts preferring to work as independents, continuously decreasing rates, seemingly never-ending marginal pressure facing most companies, and hiring-restricting corporate policies. However, staff augmentation, from a budgetary view, only works when the contract for an external resource runs for a brief period of time. The best feature of staff augmentation is the retention of the management of the additional staff by the parent company. This makes the temporarily employed professionals accountable to the parent company. The Orientation of Managed Service Provider Managed service customers look far beyond traditional outsourcing criteria or hiring short-term contract staff to get the long-term advantages they expect from a solution partner. The idea is to look beyond the initial saving plan and ask "what's next." A traditional managed services model enables an organization to outsource process management, activities, and delivery efficiently to reduce the complete expense of a business. Managed services are the additional assistance that saves your day. With managed services, you will be free from the necessary but time-consuming activities. You will be able to focus on the right people and resources on the right stuff. Your strategic measures will all take place while improving effectiveness and productivity. That makes the model an interesting long-term strategy. The pricing structure, based on regular monthly billing across service levels and volumes, rather than per diem charges connected with staff augmentation, guarantees that company expenses stay within the forecast. Reduced cost volatility encourages accurate and predictable budgeting. MSPs cope autonomously with projects and do not consult with the parent business on any decision. Both parties agree to formal commitments prior to collaboration. Following such agreements, MSPs function to perform their commitment according to their procedures. Staff Augmentation VS Managed Services in Focus Here is an in-depth view of the Staff Augmentation VS Managed Service Provider Pocket Friendliness vs Targeted Results The first and most important difference between the two is the objective of the parent company. Businesses according to their preferences pick any of the two models. Staff augmentation facilitates offers a capital-efficient model of staffing, considerably reducing operational costs. It is the best pick for the companies who want to expand their business scope while it ensures cost friendliness. Moreover, the business has particular requirements go for Managed Services. These companies are partnering with MSPs and directing them towards a set of goals. MSPs then have discretion over the process to be followed to accomplish the specific outcomes. Staff augmentation, therefore, meets the cost reduction goal, whereas managed services encourage the fulfillment of desired results. Authority vs Discretion Though both the models weigh equally heavy yet the second main difference between staff augmentation and managed services is the autonomy and discretion on the management and execution of the project. In the case of staff augmentation, the parent company holds a great position in the management of processes. Hence, the final call continues to remain with the parent company. But if we talk about managed services, it includes the transfer of discretionary authority. In MSP, there is a shift of project autonomy from the parent business to the MSP. Management under staff augmentation is thus the responsibility of the parent business, while managed services transfer this duty to the MSP. Flexible Recruitment vs Accountability The two IT outsourcing models have different strengths and weaknesses. Staff augmentation enables the parent company to perform hiring procedure readily, i.e. on the go, taking into account the requirements of the project. The flexibility provided in this model is also noticeable in the parent company's ability to hire staff for short periods of time. On the other hand, MSPs emphasize their accountability to the parent company. MSPs, while undertaking any partnership, prepare a list of goals and objectives they commit to. Therefore, MSPs are responsible for all commitments and are also accountable for the timely delivery. Thus, these two outsourcing models meet distinct sets of demands. While staff augmentation provides a flexible model of supplementation with qualified experts, managed services guarantee accountability and are accountable to parent companies. Short-term Relationship vs Long-term Relationship Another point of distinction is the time span of their relationships with the parent company. Staff augmentation only have a short-term relationship between the service seeker and the provider. Most of this connection is transactional and short-lived. Once the parent company drills staffing assistance from staff augmentation companies the relationship reaches a hibernation period. The relationship is often resurrected when a new need for staffing occurs. On the contrary, MSPs have a very close bond with the parent company. This relationship is based on mutual trust and sharing of information. The parent company is then reliant on the MSP for technical expertise and dissemination of information. The relationship between an MSP and the parent company for both partners is long-term and mutually reinforcing. Hence, staff augmentation has short term service provisions while managed services build a long-term relationship. Operational Scaling vs Project Scaling Staff augmentation and managed service both have their own pros and cons when it comes to scalability. IT staff augmentation has the capacity to provide significant choices for project scaling in terms of the enhanced need for qualified professionals. Any additions to the present workforce are considerably convenient to meet the scalability requirements and demands. It does not, however, give any feasible solutions for scaling operations and sharing knowledge. On the other hand, managed services have the capacity to provide full consultation when it comes to scaling operations. In fact, adding duties to an existing project is simpler than incorporating a new task force. Despite the flexibility, the latter may be time-consuming in the event of continuous operation. Thus, the two models give different scalability alternatives, meeting diverse needs. Downsides The perfection of any model is accompanied by the disadvantages as well so let’s have a look at the downsides of both the models: Staff Augmentation: You may never find the 'all-knowing' team for a fair price, so it can happen that the augmented staff may need some extra expertise to accomplish any given task. And that needs education, which implies extra time and financing costs. The businesses that use staff augmentation are only getting the resources. Preferably, the company gets resources of the top quality, but not the outcome. The company that uses the staff augmentation business model is fully liable for the development process and quality control, so the outcome is also the responsibility of the company. If there are some weaknesses in the internal business procedures, the additional staff augmentation costs may damage each of the in-house team and the general workflow of the company. Managed Services: The downsides of managed services are somehow comparable to those associated with staff augmentation. The vendor reliability is the first and primary risk in the managed services. Like outsourcing, the client puts his resources at stake, having no significant impact on the workflow. Recommendations and remarks from prior customers are the most secure fact that helps to prevent such risk. Despite the inquiry for the complete execution of the work, responsibility for the result lies with the client-company. This means that compensation outgoings are also the responsibility of the client in the case of a shortcoming. In turn, expenses may exceed the cost of the contract. The benefit of the managed service provider is the availability of rare abilities and/or technical facilities. Not all of these tools are so simple, inexpensive, and easy to get. The services of the skilled and experienced vendor will demand substantial costs. Of course, it's comparatively cheaper and significantly quicker than if you're doing this on your own, but the cost is still high, making it a major disadvantage when comparing staff augmentation vs. managed services. According to mobile app user retention rates from Statista, 55% of mobile app users will abandon an app one month after downloading it. That number grows to 68% after three months. Today’s users will not even stick around to experience the app after downloading it. This means that user retention should be taken into account during the entire app design and development process, and should guide decision-making whenever possible. So, What Is Retention Rate? According to Google: “A retention rate is the percentage of users that remain active on your mobile app after a certain period of time.” Defining a good retention rate for the app depends heavily on the industry, client base, business model, and retention definition of the app. For some applications, retention is about recurring subscriptions. While for others, it is about one-off visits or purchases. Product teams should benchmark their retention in their industry against similar companies. For instance, retention of 33 percent is regarded outstanding in e-commerce. For starters, here’s how we define retention: Returning to the app at least 1x within 30 days Switching the Focus from Acquisition to Retention If you've been in the app world for a couple of years, you understand that acquisition was once regarded the most significant mobile metric. Mobile app marketers targeted on attracting as many new customers as possible to the app, touting a number of users as the greatest pillar of achievement. What people didn't take into consideration, though, is the fickleness of these consumers, with 21 percent of them using an app only once. It is now increasingly obvious that we need to move beyond just measuring app installations and concentrate on in-app conduct to encourage engagement and retention with customer engagement ideas. But despite this revelation, too many brands have yet to move their mind away from acquisition to retention. Simple Ways to Boost Mobile App User Retention You might wonder what we have learned and what makes for an excellent retention rate. Although mobile is how customers like to interact with brands, brands are not delivering on experience, so consumers are churning. So how are we going to solve this? Take the opportunity of the strategies below that have been proven to have a positive effect on retention: Get Easy On-Board Your customers must understand your app’s value and for that purpose, you need to give them obvious reasons. It emphasizes the value proposition of the app; highlights key features and asks customers only about the information they need with clear CTAs. After an effective mobile app onboarding experience, you’ll witness app user retention rates boost by 50 percent. Provide Useful In-App Messages You receive an in-app message while you are using an application. They are critically important and also make it even easier for people to travel through the app experience. Plus, retention has been known to boost by 3x. Useful in-app messages will inform a user new features, highlight what is different, and share essential information, such as letting customers know about surge pricing within the Uber app. Reach Users Beyond the App with Push Push notifications are an important feature as they are sent directly to the beloved home screen of a user, the stakes are high to get it right. Which implies having convincing messaging that is personalized to the user and pairing that with the latest push notification technology. Provide People What They Are Looking for App users want their interactions to be customized to their priorities, location and in-app behavior. In fact, a study found that personalized push and in-app messages performed significantly better than broadcast. Predictive Insights If you know in advance which of your customers are at risk of churning gives you an opportunity to redeem them. Mobile marketers should design extremely personalized messaging campaigns to re-engage these individuals before it’s too late and they have closed an app for good Re-Engage with Lapsed Audience Almost half of the iOS users opt-out of push messaging, making it really difficult to get them back in. So, what to do now? Remarketing. Approaching these individuals with a convincing reminder outside of your app — through email, social, or search advertisements — is an effective means to re-engage them. In doing so, be sure to leverage insights into their behavior, interests, and preferences to assure that you remain relevant. Such a user-engagement strategy will bring back the lapsed customers A/B Testing is a Must Through A/B testing identify which strategies — such as calls to action — are working and which are missing the mark. With these insights, you become smarter and more productive in deploying campaigns and help you concentrate on messaging and features that stimulate commitment and conversion. For instance, A/B test CTAs to check what help convince users to move through your main app funnels as well as different push and in-app offers to see which drive greater conversion rates. The more in-app activity and conversion activities a user has, the more they will visit the app. Offer an Omnichannel Experience Marketers make a big mistake when they do not integrate their app into overall marketing platforms. Due to which apps become isolated from the rest of the marketing strategy, leading to the user’s disconnected brand experience. Marketers should encourage and infuse their applications across channels to generate a seamless user experience — which converts into having a very sticky app, thereby boosting retention rates. Make Data Your Guide As with any channel, to be a real winner on mobile, you’ve got to lead with data. Which implies arming yourself with the ideas required to know how well you are retaining customers and how impactful your marketing campaigns are in shifting the needle. Having the right data insights will enable you to improve your user interactions, eventually leading in a favorable retention upswing. Incentivize Users Another interesting strategy for lowering the churn rate is to incentivize customers to remain with the app. Sometimes, all that users need to stick around is a reason to come back to the app. Things like gamification, rewards, or loyalty programs can be the difference between a lifelong customer and the simple afterthought of your app. Your app’s nature will dictate the sort of incentives you should roll out. For instance, if you’re hoping to increase in-app purchases, attempt time-sensitive discounts. Whereas if you operate under a freemium model, you can incentivize your customers for the period they spend using your app with usage-based benefits. Last Thing Although it may feel like customer retention and app engagement are difficult to achieve, hope is found in the fact that as consumers continue to demand better products, we will continue to grow to satisfy them. This is the way progress is accomplished by setting greater and greater objectives for ourselves. So, when you come up with your customer retention approach or work hard to improve your app statistics, keep in mind that you are only making the process better for future users. As Bill Gates says, ‘Your most unhappy customers are your greatest source of learning’ Retention rates are one of the greatest concerns for businesses developing an app. Acquisitions and downloads are crucial; however, the real success of the mobile app is evaluated by high retention rates because they demonstrate that consumers find continuous value using your app. We mentioned some good examples of customer engagement above. Following these best practices will not only drive user-engagement but will also improve user experience. Progressive Web Apps (PWA) reap the benefits of new technologies to bring users the finest of mobile sites & native applications. They are reliable, fast, and engaging. They stem from a secure source and load regardless of the network state. Let’s Begin With ‘Why’ and ‘What’ of PWA and React JS Have you ever seen a "Add to Home Screen" banner while scrolling a website? The "application" installs itself in the background when you click the button. When you enter this application, which is now in your app drawer, you can browse the same experience you've had on your browser, but right now in your mobile phone. What you now have is a mobile app that has been downloaded from a web application. All this without even seeing an app store's face. Getting the app was just that easy! But it's not even the best part. When you open this app, you'll be able to browse the content even if you don't have internet. You have access to the app offline! What you've encountered is a Progressive Web App (PWA). It allows you to install the application from the browser window itself, is accessible as a native app on your mobile, and works offline, just like a native app. Progressive web apps are a hybrid of regular web pages (or websites) and a mobile application. But what does it imply to be progressive for a web app? Let's take a closer look at what progressive web applications are, why I believe they're better than native applications, and what makes them unique from traditional web applications. What is a Progressive Web App (PWA)? Progressive Web App is not a new framework or technology. It's a set of best practices to create a web application similar to a desktop or mobile application. The plan is to have such a uniform and seamless experience that the user cannot tell the difference between a Progressive Web App and a native mobile app. It offers user experience via progressive enhancement. It actually implies that a PWA will perform the same operations on a new iPhone 8 as on an older generation iPhone. Although certain features may not be present, the app will continue to work and perform as it should. Why do we need PWAs? Progressive web apps take advantages of latest web development frameworks and tools. There are multiple reasons why we need them today, but here are a few of the top facilities it provides: Integrated user experience: PWAs feel and act like native applications. They sit in the home screen of a user, send push notifications like native applications, and have access to the functionalities of a device like native apps. The experience is streamlined and integrated. Fast: PWAs provide consistently fast experiences. Everything takes place really quickly from the time a user downloads an app to the time they begin interacting with it. Since you can cache the data, restarting the app is incredibly quick, even without hitting the network. Engaging: Since we can send notifications to a customer, we can really fuel the engagement by keeping the user notified and engaged with the app. Dependable experience: With the help of service staff, even when the network has failed, we can reliably paint an image on a user's screen. What is React JS? ReactJS is basically an open-source JavaScript library that is used specifically for single-page apps to build user interfaces. It’s used for handling view layer for web and mobile apps. React also enables us to generate reusable UI components. React was first developed by Jordan Walke, a Facebook software engineer. It is a “declarative, efficient, and flexible JavaScript library for building user interfaces” as described by its creators. Simply stated, it helps you to develop a quick, easy and scalable frontend for web applications. Why you should choose React JS? Now, the main question arises that why one should use ReactJS. There are so many open-source platforms to facilitate the development of the front-end web application, such as Angular. Let's take a quick look at the advantages of React to other competitive technologies or frameworks Development efficiency – Less development time and higher quality Flexible and easy to maintain High performance of your app SEO friendly – more visibility for your site Open source with rich toolset Easy transition to React Native Strong community How to Build a Progressive Web App Using React JS Google has published a checklist of Progressive Web apps items. We will explain here four minimum requirements for building progressive web apps using React JS: 1. Web App Manifest To make your application installable, you must include a manifest.json in the root directory of the application. You can think of it as a description of your request, similar to what you could submit to the App Store. It contains icons, a splash screen, a name and a description. We can write this manifest file ourselves or we can use tools to create one for us. 2. Register a Service Worker Service workers are event-driven employees who work in the background of an application and behave as a proxy between the network and the application. They are able to intercept background network requests and cache information for us. This can be used to store data for offline usage. They are a javascript script that listens to activities like fetch and installs and executes tasks. 3. Icon This is used when a user installs the PWA in their application drawer to provide an app icon. A jpeg image is just going to be fine. The manifest tool helps to generate icons for various formats, and are very helpful. 4. Served Over HTTPS In order to be a PWA, the React JS web application must be served over a secure network. Being a safe site is not only a best practice, but it also defines your web application as a trusted site for users showing trust and reliability and avoiding middle-man attacks. SSL provides an additional layer of security to the web, helping your consumers feel safe when using your site. HTTPS is crucial for using service workers with PWAs and enabling home screen installation. You can buy an SSL certificate from your domain registrar at a little cost and then configure it through your hosting service. 5. Analyze App's Performance Performance is PWAs' heart and soul. Your app should be speedy on all network conditions for customers. Caching and offline functionality helps a lot, but your application should be fast at the end of the day, even if the user does not have the browser to help service worker technology. This is the definition of progressive enhancement–providing everyone with a positive experience, regardless of device modernity or network conditions. Top Market Trends of Progressive Web App (PWA) Conversational Interactions Jumping into the first trend, conversational interactions are gaining popularity as a way to interact directly with a device (not just mobile as a matter of fact), in fact, a user can actually talk with the app. But this is nothing new for the mobile – Apple, Amazon, Google and Microsoft have introduced this in their products for a long time, not too many developers are conscious that you can use a mobile phone's microphone through the recent HTML5 framework. So, anything is theoretically possible and the amazing thing about conversational interactions is that you can use your app without even touching the phone. Which is useful in certain situations, this can be a valuable safety characteristic –for instance when driving. But it can also simply give an additional layer of usability. We expect to see these become a key component of how applications are used in the future. Access Data Offline More and more individuals want to use their applications offline for different purposes. It's good for those who want to frequent an app, or perhaps want to save information, and even cut battery consumption that can be a real advantage in everyday life. This is possibly one of the greatest benefits of native applications and one of the mobile web's biggest pitfalls. Progressive web apps builders have opened the doors to offline installation with nearly no friction. This is all feasible owing to the service worker that can be integrated in PWA's to allow the entire app to function without an internet connection. This effectively allows for a frictionless offline experience and is something that will be implemented with each passing year for more and more internet applications. We expect more and more businesses to make the leap for a PWA to access this functionality–particularly those with less updated websites that are primarily static. One of the more common benefits that are not frequently addressed is the sheer size of a once-downloaded PWA – it's minuscule compared to a native app, in fact, they take up 25 x less space on a device. Multi-Channel Push Messages Push notifications are a great way to market a company in the contemporary age. Multi-channel marketing is nothing new, but it is using multiple channels and push notifications is one of them. The only way to use push notifications so far is to have a native app, but with a PWA you can use push notifications in your marketing operations when attempting to reach your audience on a mobile. But mobile aside, with the latest web standards it is also possible to send push notifications to desktops with a web push notification. It allows you to truly develop cohesive marketing campaigns that reach your customer on whatever platform they might be on at various stages of their customer journey. Although relying too much on push messaging may frustrate customers, there is no denying that it is one of the most powerful tools in your marketing arsenal and it will continue to grow in popularity for many years to come as a key element of your marketing plan. Touch Gestures Touch gestures are becoming a standard for how customers on the mobile web should communicate with content. It can shape the way your content is experienced. However, if you want it to be effective, you need to be sure to get them right. A clunky touch gesture is so much worse than just not having it at all. But executed properly, it's one of the best features around. Generally, keeping it simple is what works like keeping it as effective and user-friendly as possible. How it Cuts Down the Cost of Development As per a research, an average person spends 80 percent of his total time on applications on only three of his applications (for instance Chrome, Quora and Medium). For most of this time, the other apps are just sitting idle consuming a valuable portion of the memory. It also costs about ten times to create an app instead of developing a website for the same. The price can be much greater if you plan to create and keep distinct code bases for different platforms such as Android, iOS, and the web. Here I will mention some of the incredible ways to build a progressive web app under low budget: Readymade templates How to reduce app development cost? Go for ready-made templates. As useful as building things from scratch is, it's not very cost-effective. There are many templates available for use online and would fit rightly with any app. Use of ready-made templates will reduce the time and cost of the app development process. UI/UX Simplicity One of the strategies to reduce the cost of developing apps is to go for easy yet elegant designs. The simple UI design is particularly essential for new customers since adaptation becomes easy. Most applications and websites opt for a minimalist design that is greatly inexpensive to design. Outsourcing Hiring dedicated engineering teams and outsourcing the project to them remains an absolute favorite cost-saving strategy for both large and medium-sized businesses. The obvious advantages it brings include time savings, end-to-end service rendering, and access to big talent pools. Hiring experts would be a wise idea as they provide advice to reduce the cost of developing mobile apps throughout the process. Minimum Viable Product MVP or a Minimum Viable Product is a prototype of your mobile application that is still in the process of development. Typically, an MVP would involve basic functionality, user interface, and business logic. This can prove to be a perfect tool for businesses to test how the target audience will respond to the app they are preparing to launch for them. You can begin adding all those secondary features once you verify that the demand exists and start getting revenue. It not only reduces expenses but also ensures against possible failure. Investing in PWA If you are one of the growing startups and want to keep up with the pace of ever-changing technology then this is the high time to invest in the progressive web app framework. Here are a few factors that might motivate you to invest in progressive web applications. Increase Reach - Google Chrome announced 1 Billion active monthly customers in just 4 years from its first launch. Growth is anticipated to be more than double in the coming years. Check out the recent information published by ComScore, which says consumers spend 2.5x times on mobile web applications versus the top 1000 native/hybrid applications. Improved Conversion - Conversion is another important matrix that explains the real transactions made by acquired customers. Flipkart, AliExpress and other big players, have effectively used this strategy to move to the PWA and have seen massive improvements in their conversion rates. For different platforms, PWAs do not require different versions. They cost much less to develop and maintain. Unlike native mobile apps, PWAs do not require installation and are indexable by search engines, leading to increased discoverability and fewer hindrances to adoption. PWA (Progressive Web Apps) development is cheaper and more effective. Thus, it is the best choice for your business to boost conversion rates. The Kotlin community is expanding. Google acknowledged Kotlin this year, making it Android's second official language. Android developers finally have the pragmatic and intuitive language they have been waiting for. But the big problem before developers is whether they should learn Kotlin only or Java as well? So, we’d recommend, if you're a Java developer who wants to move into the profitable Android app development industry, then Kotlin is the answer! But if you're a complete beginner who wants to learn Android development, then we’d suggest learning Java as well. Let’s dive deeper into the details of Kotlin vs Java performance and decide which side feels heavy. Kotlin VS Java: Which Is Better for Android App Development? There is no denying that Java has its place to compete, but with time we all need some advancement, so if we can find it, we always look for a better option. Each language has its pros and cons, with which you have to decide which language you can utilize well. Java Sun Microsystems developed the Java, an object-oriented programming language. And it is currently owned by Oracle. It was launched in 1991 and is such an old language; it has much more to offer to you. Even Java can offer you more job opportunities as you don't want to develop android applications all the time. it can let you open your wings and fly to another field. Because Android itself is Java-based, mobile app development firms have always preferred Java over any other language. It becomes essential to see why Java is considered the first official language for Android app growth. Kotlin Kotlin launched in 2016, and at that time all developers need to have a modern language for Android development that can contribute to Java's features and help in mobile development. JetBrains developed Kotlin, an open-source language based on JVM. It can be compiled and interpreted with Java due to its statically Java-based language. Developing Android Apps with Kotlin allows designers to readily update the old Java applications, and you can effortlessly carry their work from Java to Kotlin. Pros and Cons After the brief introduction of both the languages. Now, let’s take a look at what merits and demerits Java and Kotlin have in-store for you. Pros of Java App Development Java Android app development is easy to understand and learn. Compatible with native cross-platform app development. Android itself is dependent on Java. Write it once, run everywhere. Java is the most versatile language. It provides developers the ability to reuse code and operate on various operating systems. Java has a faster process buildup compared to Kotlin. Java consists of an ecosystem that is mainly open source due to Google's adoption of JVM for Android. Java has a Gradle-oriented accelerated assembly and thus decreases overheads while developing big projects. Java applications are predominantly compact and way too light compared to Kotlin. This is justified by the fact that Kotlin Development induces complicated structures that decrease overall efficiency. Cons of Java App Development Comparatively slow and require extensive memory. Being verbose, Java Development has more code drafting demands and this accounts for bugs along with errors. Limitations, as Java poses, lead to Android API design problems. Pros of Kotlin App Development Kotlin eliminates the induction of raw data types and leads to improved code. Switching from Java to Kotlin is too easy and all you need to do is install your plugin. It has no room for ClassCastException to minimize verbosity and leverage code security. Smart expanded features to enable developers to build better APIs. Brevity: Although readability is above precision, Kotlin still has the concision that Java Development lacks. It's nature also decreases overhead development and is a bonus for all mobile app development businesses. Where a Java code requires 10 lines of code for calculator function, Kotlin requires half. In addition, Kotlin Development does not compromise comprehension while achieving brevity. Interoperability: Right from the beginning, Kotlin developers concentrate on leveraging performance by enhancing existing knowledge and further inducing features that make it the top choice for all android software development companies. Simple modules drafted on Kotlin work seamlessly on Java codes. Moreover, the Kotlin compiler eliminates bytecode and fuses two languages in the same project. Inbuilt Null Safety: Kotlin has inbuilt null safety. The renowned NullPointerException is mainly responsible for Android development errors. Android uses null to depict the absence of a value, but null can readily ruin an app. Kotlin solves this issue by integrating the inherent safety null. This addition saves developers from writing additional code to work around the problem. Cons of Kotlin App Development It induces complicated structures and thus decreases overall speed. Auto-complete features are less efficient compared to the efficiency of Java projects. Kotlin has a restricted community, so if you're stuck with a bug, you need to take the pain to decode it all by yourself. Will Kotlin Oust Java for Android Development? Java is a reputable programming language with extensive open-source tools and libraries to benefit developers. With that said, there is no language without fault, and even Java is subject to complications that can render a developer's job tedious. If anything, Kotlin will introduce solutions to prevalent headaches in programming and strengthen the Java ecosystem as a whole. Over time, Kotlin has become a much more stable and congruous development alternative for Android Studio. Some developers also seemed to believe that in the coming years, it will oust Java for Android development. Other specialists see that Kotlin and Java coexist without one outweighing the other. For most, the strengths of Kotlin outweigh the setbacks of the language. There are definite constraints within Java that impede the design of the Android API. Kotlin is inherently lightweight, neat, and far less verbose, particularly when it comes to writing callbacks, data classes, and getters/setters. In other words, it is specifically designed to improve existing Java models by providing solutions to deficiencies in the design of the API as android programming is based on Java programming language. Therefore, addresses numerous weaknesses of Java. The Business Benefits of Switching to Kotlin For a business, moving to a new tool is a well-thought decision; however, Kotlin app development services provide two indispensable business advantages that impact the decision. Reduced Project Timelines - Kotlin's brevity advantages imply that language can solve more problems with fewer lines of code. Its concise nature enables developers to read and adjust code more effectively, which can reduce the time-to-market of a project. Less App Crashes - Again, Kotlin products use fewer lines of code than Java programs. Not only does less code decrease development time, but also fewer lines of code support maintenance needs. There is less surface area for bugs to hide, and improved language readability makes it simpler for designers to locate bugs, leading in fewer crashes and system failures. Apart from that; One of the reasons is the trust built up around Kotlin owing to Google officially supporting the language. This support will expand the Android app development ecosystem that will provide the companies with improved technical support and other capabilities. In the Android app development eco-system, Kotlin is all set for a promising future. The reduced development and maintenance costs of Kotlin projects are a big plus for any business. It has a plethora of great language features and offers brevity that guarantees greater performance with quicker turnaround time. Who Is Using Kotlin in Their Development Environments? Several leading organizations have already embraced Kotlin including: Pinterest Prezi Netflix Evernote Uber Corda Gradle Pivotal Coursera Atlassian Some Help for Developers Verdict A comparison is always subjective. There are several factors and perceptions that matter a lot when we compare languages, frameworks, or tools. We know that Kotlin is based on Java and because of the influence of one on the other, you can't easily compare these two languages. Many have embraced Kotlin and are enjoying tangible advantages from it, and there are developers who are stuck with Java in the development of Android apps. One thing is definite that Kotlin has the ability to substitute Java language, but it may take longer than we think. When comparing Kotlin to Java for Android application development, two things are certain: Java is not going anywhere, and it will be a long time until Kotlin phases it out entirely. On the other side, android app development using Kotlin is here to remain and will become even more developer-friendly as time goes on. In particular, Atlassian, Pinterest, Basecamp, Coursera have all implemented the latest features of Kotlin in their mobile apps. Magento is the most powerful application being used by many of the online merchants out there because of its rich features. Magento has the market share of 23.77% following Woocommerce at 22.14%. Since, Magento is a big ecommerce platform, it does require ample resources to sustain itself properly. It is essential to have a store that is fast and user friendly. To make the Magento store load quickly, the main key is configuration. Configuration is important for a Magento store because if it is not done properly, it could result in slow speed leaving negative impact on the customers. Magento has a lot of built-in features to speed up the rendering process. Speeding up your Magento webstore is really important because it highly impacts on both Search rankings and conversion rates. But it can be quite challenging. To help you through this daunting step, this article will help you out with the things that are required to get the most of Magento’s optimization features. People Have Become Really Impatient- Nothing New About That, Right? Before moving on towards the configuration settings and options needed to improve the Magento’s load time, let us talk about the commonly offered solutions to Magento being slow. Many of the developers during the optimization face either hardware problem or a software problem. As obvious as it may sound, there are certain elements that needs further clarification before you jump to conclusions: The Hardware Dilemma: A hardware problem is that you need to change your hardware or you need to migrate your site on any other server. But on other side, it is true because running a powerful software like Magento, needs a high potential server. The potential depends on the number of customers your Magento webstore serves at a time, for that you will need something that is in between mid-tier and ludicrous speed OR maybe you would need a more capable software for that. The Software problem: Software issues emerge primarily because of bad coding or may be the errors have been injected through a blacklisted or a rogue extension that’s been added by you erroneously or deliberately. If this is the case of errors in the code than the main solution is that you need a developer to go deep in the code, find it and correct it. Besides the errors, there could be another problem with your code and that is, maybe the code is not efficient in performance as it actually should be in the first place. If this is the problem then this might be the bottleneck in your site’s code. So, address this issue by all means. Check Configurations For Speed Before Beginning: Configurations are needed to check the speed of your webstore as you might not be using all the Magento’s built in features that are available to help you out in optimizing the load time. Many of the Magento stores don’t use these built-in functionalities, later resulting in a slow webstore. Listing down Magento’s built-in features that you need to improve the load times and also will give you information on how to configure them efficiently. Configuration of Magento Built-in Features For Speed: At this point when you have to perform any change to the Magento, we must recommend you to make all the changes that you must do on a development site at first. To make sure that your store functionalities are up-to-date as you expected them to be then perform testing. After testing if you are not satisfied by them then make changings on the production. The functionalities are listed below in an order of the impacts that are made on your store’s speed. Caches: Caches are there to help you out in speeding up your site or your system. And in Magento, caches plays an important role in optimization. They work by keeping the blocks of the HTML codes and then using them on needed time, speeding up your webstore because servers don’t need to generate them again. If you are using Magento Enterprise version than caching would be a piece of cake for you because it comes with full page cache. But what if you are not using this version. Don’t worry we have a solution for that as well! You can use some add-on extensions for the Community version to do full page caching. If you use this version and you want to boost up your site then we recommend you to install one of them. The main issue on some of the stores is that only some of the caches are active. There could be many of the reasons of caches to be disabled. Maybe the extension that you are using is broken when the caches were turned on or may be you are not 100% confident that nothing will get wrong once you turn on the caches. If you are facing above cases then you should resolve them at once. And before deployment, make sure your website to test in a development environment. After that turn them on and finally utilize the speed benefits as you wanted them to be! Configuration of Caches: The below mentioned are the tips and tricks to configure the caches: Go to System > Cache Management Select All caches Select Enable under the Actions dropdown Hit Submit button and Voila! Flat Tables: Magento has two modes: Database Products and Categories. Magento can use many number of tables to generate the information or it may use one Flat table. Both of the modes are there for you to use. If your are using Flat table mode then you also have to do indexing that is triggered when you save a product. Using flat tables means that you are not affecting any other things but only the speed of the site for your customers. Make sure to test the flat tables on the development site before making the changings in productions as many of the extensions do not work well with these flat tables. Configuration of Flat Tables: The below mentioned are the tips and tricks to configure the flat tables in your database: Go to System > Configuration Select Catalog from left Open the Front End Change the option to Yes of the Use Flat Catalog Category and Use Flat Catalog Product Hit Save and don’t forget to Test Asset Crushing: Magento depends on quite a few CSS and Javascript files in order to run, further you can add extensions as well. On the web, you need a connection to your server for each file because every file downloaded comes with overhead. This gives us the idea of packing your assets into a large file instead of packing them into smaller ones. And yes, Magento does have this option through that you can merge all the Javascript and CSS files that are being used on your site into other files automatically. Configuration of Assets Crushing: The below mentioned are the tips and tricks to configure the asset crushing: Go to System > Configuration Click on the Developer link Open up the Javascript Settings and CSS Settings Set the value of Merge Javascript Files and Merge CSS Files to yes Hit Save! The merging of Javascript files also break functionalities, also it depends on the customizations your theme have. Also, make sure that you test. Database Log Cleaning: The log in Magento systems contains log that have quite a bit of data about each preview that is on the site. Many times this data is accumulated in the database. This data can grow to a specific point where each additional log to the database takes the time that it needs to complete. If your log cleaning is not enabled then your site might get slow after a couple of months but again it depends on the number of people visiting your site or more shortly the site traffic. By log cleaning, you are basically deleting the old entries and keeping only the newer ones. You might think about data loss. Not to worry Magento’s database logs are not used for much. Cleaning Database Logs: The below mentioned are the tips and tricks to configure the database log cleaning: Go to System > Configuration Click on the link on the left bottom named System Open up the Log panel Set the following settings Set Enable Log to Yes Set Save Log, Days to 7 Set Enable Log Cleaning to Yes Set Start Time to 0:00:00 Set Frequency to Daily Enter your email address at Error Email Recipient Hit Save and don't forget to Test. The Alternative Is Here! Disable Database Logs: Yes, we have here a golden option too. This alternative is here to remove the additional functionalities of your website, let's suppose you don’t need the functionalities of Recently Viewed Product or Compare Products for not logged in customers then simply just disable these logs. In result, you will get a Webstore which is much faster than before and yes your logs will be clean. To do this, the steps are mentioned below: Go to System > Configuration Click on the link on the left bottom named System Open up the Log panel Set Enable Log to No Hit Save and don't forget to Test. Disable the Error/Debug Message Logging: This is the last option in the list and can be done only if you have resolved all the errors on the site. Still, it can be useful to catch rare errors that are not discovered yet by keeping the logging enabled. But if you disable the logging, it will have a measurable impact on your site speed and performance. Your question might be raised that when to disable this option, we will recommend you to disable it if your site is performing well without much errors. Disabling Frontend logging The below mentioned are the tips and tricks to disable the frontend logging: Go to System > Configuration Click on the link on the left bottom named Developer Open up the Log Settings panel Set Enabled to No Hit Save and again don't forget to Test. Compilation: The Compilation is a feature in Magento that is - right now - included for legacy support. You might hear this option before but actually, according to us, this is an anti-suggestion. This feature was introduced at the time when there was a hard time for PHP running codebases as large as Magento’s. Now, this issue has been fixed in new versions of php 5.0, so, you don’t need compilation feature as long as your server host provides you the functionality of OPcache. Voila! You are Done Now! The above-mentioned options are for your slow Magento Webstore and you want it to run it in faster speed. Still, you are facing any issue? How much your Magento Website is now after doing few switches? Let us know in the comments. The most frequently asked question we get from the business owners is “How much my website will cost from scratch?” The answer they usually get is, “It depends.” The real cost of building a website varies from the specifications and functionalities required by the client. Can it be a hundred dollar? Maybe. Can the cost escalate to hundreds of thousands of dollars? Probably. It's essential that you know where your hard-earned money is going. It can really help you being responsible with your spending. Don't let someone else make that decision for you. Grab the bull by the horns and steer it in the direction where you exactly want your finances to go. Budget forecasting can help you with that. To provide an accurate estimate, we are sharing down here some guidelines for creating a website budget so you can develop a great looking website without exceeding your finances that much. Before going down in details, let me share the basic necessities of a website development process: Basic & Compulsory Website Components: Domain Hosting Web Design & Development Maintenance Online Marketing 1: Write in Detail Your Website Specific Needs Before starting a website project with questions like, “What should my new website look like?’ Ask yourself first that what are my objectives? Determining your business specific needs is a must-to-do thing. It is a better to list down the most important requirements and think about it to get a clear image of your website which will help in calculating the exact amount required to build it. Who will be my targeted audience? What will be the functional and technical requirements? What should the design look like? What should be my plan for delivering the site objectives? The right answer to these questions will end up in delivering the best-looking website with better results in a more efficient and less expensive process. 2: Time to Know your Financial Limitations Maybe you need a basic site with fewer pages that gives a detailed overview of the products. In that case, it won’t cost too much on your pocket. While on the other hand, a highly customized website with lots of bells and whistles can give you a blow on the budget. If you are making an e-commerce website, you need to consider... SEO services Responsive Web Design Multilingual Graphic Designs Stock Photos The average cost for a professional looking website varies from hundreds to thousands. Start with a grand total including other things like content development, site architecture which covers your entire project. Break it down to see how much it will cost for an individual part and stick to the basics if you are on a tight budget. 3: Interface Design Costs Interface designs refer to the visual design or the site looks & feels. The interface is usually an iterative process. Don’t assume that if you have a pre-made template, you won’t require any images or layouts re-done. In fact, it means that the website development agency or a developer would show you several options and then modify them according to your requirements on an approved design. Don’t skimp on the interface designs, if you do so then you’ll regret because today’s sophisticated visitors won’t ever give your website a second glance if they don’t feel attractive towards it or satisfied by the looks initially. 4: Responsiveness, Creation and Insertion Costs The best designs are responsive means it should be mobile-friendly or in a simple way designed in a way to automatically adjust their layout and function easily on multiple devices like laptops, desktops, tablets and on smartphones. Creating a website design can cost around 20 to 30% of your entire website budget. When it comes to creating the content, the design firm either create all the content on their end then insert it through CMS or deliver a blank design template that the client would populate it as desired. 5: Expect For the Additional Costing It would be great if the end result of your planning matched with your desired budget perfectly. But it’s even smarter to plan for some unforeseen expenses. Whether it’s time for some last minute touch-ups or paying for additional functionalities. Planning would provide you some wiggle room and minimize the potential for the setbacks and if you have some money left over, you could utilize it in enhancing any feature on your website. 6: Don’t Forget the Maintenance & Updating Cost Websites don’t just get maintained by themselves. Besides all the initial investments, a considerable amount of money is required for the site maintenance. Imagine if you delete an entire page of your website by mistake and loose hours of sales while trying to recover it, you will wish you would have spent some extra money on a maintenance contract. The best website upgrades its strategy with the current trends and updates itself from time to time. If the website is using an e-commerce transaction platform or an email service to publish newsletters, you will be typically charged on monthly basis. Maintenance costs vary depending upon your expectations from the firm or the developer. Some Other Important Factors to Consider In Your Website Budget: Do you need a blog or a CMS (Content Management System)? Do you want automatic resizing? Do you need other features like social media channels, SEO? Do you need multimedia elements on the site? Additional Things to Consider in your Budget: Additional designs like icons, graphics, animations, videos Additional Content Development Server set-up & administration including backup and 24/7 monitoring Additional applications and tools Bonus Tip: The budget should be based on the strategic needs of your business. If you are tight on the budget, then you may want to consider drag & drop website builder to get started. Don’t forget new sites often costs more than the redesigns. Customers are a major component of any business. No one can claim to be running a successful business without the need for a strong customer base. But there is always competition in business. If you are lax in the delivery of services or begin supplying your customers with bad quality products, you will lose them to the competition. Client loss, however negligible, may have a negative general impact on the future success of the business. You need to understand them to retain your existing customers. Thus, will be able to deliver precisely what they want. Therefore, businesses should strive to retain their customers at all costs. That's not always simple, but the arrival of big data and business intelligence have made it easier for businesses to understand their customers and learn new methods to keep them coming back. What is Big Data? To understand big data, you first need to understand what data is. It is the quantities, characters, or symbols on which a computer performs operations that can be collected and transmitted in the form of electrical signals and recorded on magnetic, optical, or mechanical recording media. Big Data is also data, but it has an enormous size. Big Data is a word used to define a collection of data that is huge in size yet grows exponentially over time. In simple terms, such data is so large and complex that it cannot be stored or processed effectively by any of the traditional data management tools. What is Business Intelligence? BI (Business Intelligence) is a collection of procedures, architectures, and technologies that turn raw data into meaningful information that drives profitable business actions. It is a suite of software and services that convert data into actionable intelligence and knowledge. BI has a direct effect on the strategy, tactical and operational company decisions of the organization. BI promotes fact-based decision-making using historical data rather than assumptions. BI tools undertake data analysis and create reports, summaries, dashboards, maps, graphs, and charts which provide users with detailed intelligence about the nature of the business. How Big Data and Business Intelligence Work Together Statisticians and data scientists have relied on predictive analytics to help them make daily business decisions. However, Big Data has changed this whole scenario. More and more data continue to stream online and is incorporated into current Business Intelligence (BI), CRM, ERP, and other major business systems. This sets the customer's single view into focus. Although most customer service and field sales officials have not felt the impact, some businesses are striving to see how that can come to play soon. Big data has created a tool mostly accessible to line-level executives for cohort and regression analysis. This has helped executives use non-transactional data to make strategic and long-term company decisions. Big data, however, isn't about to overshadow traditional BI tools. It will actually make BI a more valuable and helpful tool for many businesses. You will always have to look into the past to be able to predict the future, but with big data, you will have to do more than that. Business intelligence will never go away, but it will be strengthened by big data. How can you understand if the results you are obtaining in the initial stages of exploration will actually bear out in the future? For instance, many women love high-heel shoes than conventional heel shoes. So, preliminary data analysis may suggest that more high-heel shoes sell better than conventional heel shoes, and that implies that high-heel shoes sell better. This is, therefore, a correlation, not a cause. If you closely study historical transaction data collected from your business intelligence tools, you may understand that, for example, because retailers put high-heel shoes at eye level your recent marketing campaigns are paying off. Social media is always going to have its importance. It lets distributors understand how customers respond to specific products and which stores sell these products the most. Through this, retailers can stock the stores as per the customer's response. BI and big data help you look at these trends and correlate your brand with geographic location and customer responses. Without this, you can miss a small window of opportunity to sell your products. Initially, many decisions were based on historical data, and the trend may have already passed by the time it happened. But Big Data Analytics enables a thundering speed. This is achieved by integrating open source technologies, that is, the sources of big data platforms. Today, the cloud can readily capture and store big quantities of non-transactional data that was once not appreciated, or individuals had no clue how to handle it. Unstructured Data Works as a Catalyst Unstructured data is often seen as the catalyst behind big data. It hardly plays a role in this, however. Usually, this information is correlated with geographic data, integrated with flat files of existing structured customer data and adding streams from new sources. This allows you to understand how users of a certain social media platform respond to your product. There are two things that happened to big data. It helps to bring in more data from distinct sources, and this data can be micro-optimized. For example, at the stage where this tactical business decision has to be taken, you can easily change behavior using tools like smartphones. Reducing ‘Time to Answer’ Key to Big Data Analytics The biggest benefit of this type of analytics is to reduce the response time. Data scientists now require the shortest possible time to respond to queries and models that took them months to build to answer. Big data and business intelligence technologies have made it all possible as they enable information to be worked with before it is optimized, rationalized or re-rationalized. Strategies for Customer Retention with BD and BI So, what is customer retention? It refers to the actions and strategies that a company incorporates to attempt and maintain existing customers. To enable these actions, customer retention analytics provide predictive analytics from which customers may churn — which allows them to get ahead of it. How to Use Big Data Analytics to Increase Customer Loyalty Better Big Data Analytics enables to boost customer loyalty. You will be able to act on the insights you gain quickly, providing you the chance to satisfy the consumer's needs easily. One can use big data to build brand loyalty and gain more business. Here are some of the big data strategies that your business can use to derive insights from customer satisfaction, drive customer loyalty, and become more competitive. Remember, the customer is always first! With the help of predictive analysis, big data can predict which customers may experience problems or any type of inconvenience with a product or service, so the customer service can contact them before they call customer service line themselves. This offers the business with several benefits as the service representative will have a good idea of what the issue is before contacting the customer, so they can come up with a solution quicker. It also prevents customer annoyance with the held and long call waiting on the customer service line. Finally, customers who may have switched products due to a problem may be tempted to stay because the organization is proactive. Know what your customers need Big data also has the ability to define the requirements of new customers, so companies can match new clients with the best product choice for them. For instance, an insurance company can use call center notes, insurance claims, and other behavioral data to predict what type of insurance policy would be the best suited for a new customer. Using big data to increase customer retention is indeed beneficial. By immediately matching new customers with the right policy, customers are less likely to have complaints or begin looking for a better match anywhere else. Strengthen Customer Experience All thanks to social media that social media many companies can have a more personal conversation with their customers, but that completely depends on customers getting on and interacting on a particular social media platform. Did you ever imagine being able to synchronize what a customer thinks even if they're not on the Facebook page of the company? You can! With big data, you get access to real-time data about what a customer is purchasing, clicking on, and talking about. Big Data Analytics enables businesses to have a continuous discussion with the customer through tailored landing pages, mobile apps, and advertisements. Customized Offer is the Key A contemporary customer wants to feel valued, so if in any case, they feel their demands aren't met, they would go for other options. So with big data, you can access information such as each customer's sex, place, and social data and enable marketers to send different offers to each person depending on their interests. Say a marketer utilizes location-based marketing to send an offer when a potential client is near a store. Instead of sending a generic promotional offer with Big Data, the marketer could send a unique deal with the bag, the person talked about on Twitter along with several other complementary product suggestions to go with it. Reduce the Proliferation of Products What most businesses do to retain customers and cater to new ones is by providing more product alternative. If businesses were able to limit their products to what the consumer actually wants to purchase, instead of attempting to provide everything to ensure sales, customer loyalty, and revenue would be much higher. It can be understood by the instance that all the choices on the toothpaste aisle, however, often leave customers overwhelmed, so instead of making a decision, they grab something that looks fine and get out of there. By evaluating the data found in customer transactions and inventory turnover, businesses can determine consumer preference, then narrow their product offering to what is most profitable. Companies that take the time to understand the need of a customer will see a tangible benefit over their competition as the product that the customer really wants will not be buried in all the other decisions. How to Use Business Intelligence Analytics to Increase Customer Loyalty Here are three ways in which companies can use business intelligence to better understand their customer base and promote customer retention: Understanding Customer Behavior & Profitability Business intelligence can deliver countless analytical capabilities for evaluating customer profitability, as well as the ranking and score carding customers across a number of fields including net profitability, month-to-month client results, and channel productivity. For example, BI software could be used to rank existing customers based on the timeliness, frequency, and value of their purchases. This provides the company with the capacity to better organize its customers into more targeted opportunities groups for up-selling and cross-selling. Micro strategies business intelligence ensures that their sales and marketing efforts are targeted at retaining and optimizing the right customers and attracting the right prospects with the right offers, whether it is an upsell to an existing customer or an incentive to attract new customers. Predict Customer Wants Business intelligence can facilitate company planners to enhance forecast accuracy and the overall scheduling process for sales and operations. For example, BI software can monitor order and order line fill rates so the business is ready to manage seasonal spikes and drops in orders. A high-end food and beverage manufacturer can use this data to store their online (and in-store) shelves with the right products at times when demand is highest. When a decline in demand is expected, the producer understands how to cut back on production and save inventory space for other products. Business intelligence software also helps businesses to set the outlier limit to eradicate past events that could influence future customer demand forecasts so that the data is more accurate. Influence Customer Behavior BI software encourages businesses easily plan, track and evaluate the success of their promotional activities to see what marketing campaigns/promotions your customer base reacts best. Marketing budgets can thus be shuffled and assigned to the more successful campaigns that generate the best possible ROI. For example, that same high-end food and beverage producer might like to track the effectiveness of a free shipping offer for the holidays versus the effectiveness of a 10 percent off coupon. What offer was used more frequently? What offer spurned clients to add more products to their online shopping cart? By comparing campaign companies ' actual outcomes with expected outcomes, they can "market" more smartly and better recognize opportunities to boost sales and growth. Last Words By developing customer understanding, building targeted and personalized product offers and picking the right retention audience, customer journey analytics can maximize your understanding of customer retention model and make better decisions about how to improve it. For even a better customer retention, every customer interaction should be differentiated on the basis of what worked in the past and what is predicted to work well in the future. Most importantly, it should be tailored to each individual customer and their distinctive customer journey. What is Google Stadia? Google Stadia is an upcoming streaming service that lets you play games without the need for a dedicated console or gaming PC. What Kind of Connection is Required to Run Stadia? Stadia will require at least 10 Mbps for 720p 60 FPS Stereo, 20 Mbps for 1080p HDR Video 60 FPS 5.1 Surround, and 35 Mbps for 4K HDR Video 60 FPS 5.1 Surround. Will Stadia Work Effectively Everywhere? Not really. If you live in a big city with a good internet connection, Stadia will run just fine. But if you live in the country or in a place that does not have decent internet speeds, Stadia may not work just as well. What Software is Stadia Built on? Google Stadia is built on Linux servers and Vulkan is their graphics API. When Will Stadia Launch? Stadia will launch in November 2019 in fourteen countries: Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Italy, Ireland, Netherlands, Norway, Spain, Sweden, United Kingdom, and the United States. https://youtu.be/MRRr2obtKso App Annie, mobile app data and analytics company, issued its 2019 Market Index Ranking Report that evaluated global app downloads and users spending in the second quarter of 2019. The report suggests that users downloaded more than 30.3 billion apps with social media apps topping the charts for Android and iOS devices. Here are the top 10 apps downloaded worldwide on both Google Play and Apple's App Store: Facebook messenger Facebook WhatsApp TikTok Instagram Snapchat Like — Magic Music Video Maker SHARE it Spotify UC Browser It’s worth noting that Snapchat saw a considerable spike in downloads, although the list above remained almost the same for the first quarter of 2019. Rather, it increased three places on the chart and gained sixth place for the second quarter. According to experts, the upsurge in demand for Snapchat is owing to the new augmented reality filters and that was introduced by the company this year. As for the customer’s spending, Tinder, Netflix, and Tencent Video topped the charts globally for iOS and Android combined in Q2. YouTube secured the fifth position as more consumers are shifting to the paid features the video-streaming platform offers. Generally, global consumer spending was up 20% year-over-year on both – iOS and Android in Q2. The report by App Annie suggests that non-gaming apps such as entertainment, music, and video apps contributed greatly to the revenue on iOS while social media apps and those zeroing in on output and lifestyle were the chief contributors for the growth on Android. Finally, with regard to the monthly active users, the statistics suggest social media apps once again topped the charts. The controversies faced by Mark Zuckerberg and Co. notwithstanding in the previous year, it appears that the apps that come under his domain show no signs of slowing down. Let’s agree on one thing that we all want to look good. We all want to present the best version of ourselves to the world. And unlike everything, your personal website or company’s website needs an overhaul too from time to time. Your website needs a refreshing new look and a revamp to let the world know that you or your business are well-aware of the current web trends and want your website to resonate the same for a better online presence. Today, the company/business doesn’t just need a website, it requires well-designed, easily navigable, engaging and responsive website which meets the needs and requirements of your customers and the business. Who doesn’t love change! But to figure out the right time for revamping and get a new overlook is the actual question. Redesigning your company’s website doesn’t necessarily mean to change each and everything of your brand, but to give it new functional modifications that help the website to work best and to help you in achieving your market goals! They are some key indicators to let you know that it’s time to get your website updated from a professional web design agency. The answers to the questions like, "When should I need to revamp my company's website?" Or, "What would be the best way to revamp my website?" are given below: Does it contain Out-dated Information & Is it an Old-fashioned Web Site? Is your website functional, pixel-perfect, have implemented new trends and created by new technologies? If the answer is no then geared up, you are ignoring the important part! Website designs are changing rapidly. Take an objective look on your website and compare it with the others. Today, it’s all about clean design and easy navigation. Outdated information on your website can annoy the customers or clients. Keep updating and posting fresh and new contents to your website. Publish blogs to create awareness or share information, post services, add products on the site or add interesting links and make people coming back to your website. Are You Using Old Web Technologies? We are going through the biggest technological shift and it sometimes seems difficult to keep up with it. Design standards and technologies are completely different today. Websites need to adjust according to the screen sizes of different devices. Your websites should be more engaging and interactive because users have become more sophisticated and aware now! Non-Responsive or Non-Mobile Friendly? According to a study, more than half of the searches are performed on mobile devices. The world has gone mobile and if your website isn’t optimized, it’s the high-time for a responsive redesign! If the website is non-responsive, you risk losing lots of mobile web traffic and potential customers. Always remember, the user experience can make or break your online business. Can You Make the Updates Easily? Trends and technology change with time. With a wide range of CMS (Content Management System), you should be able to update your own website, add products or content in it. A CMS is the back-end of your website. And it should be simple enough to let you add pages, images, contents and links even if you are not tech-savvy. When you have your website on CMS, you’re in control! Is the Website Fast? Consumers expect the website to load within 2 seconds or even less. If your website is slow, you are not only annoying the customers but also hurting your search engine ranking. Fast loading website gives better user experience. Slow websites are usually the result of slow web hosting or poorly coded site. Run your website couple of time before making it live to get a solid baseline. Is Your Website Ranking Good On Search Engines? If your organic search engines are ranking low, you might need to update your website. Today, it’s all about having original and high-quality content on your website, which is why a site with blogs performs so well. Not ranking in search engines can be a disaster for your company. Whatever the reason is, you need to update the website to make sure, it is ranking well. Do you have Fancy Splash Screen? The home page is extremely important for your company’s website. If your website has some flash splash screen, then chances are Google isn’t even looking past your page. Flash has been outdated for the past 5 years! No search engines or even mobile devices can’t read it. Flash is not only difficult to create but also hard to use and maintain. Replace your flash screen with a normal web page at first! Are the Third Party Tools Updated? If you have embedded third party tools on your website, you might need to improve their functionality too. Check few things to determine about your third party tools. Are they working properly? Are they slowing the site speed? Are there newer versions available? Third party tools like shopping carts etc. drive customers away if they are outdated in terms of functions or designs or just doesn’t work properly. Is your Site Secure? If your website is outdated, you’re at risk. Although there’s no practical way to make your website completely hack-proof. A security guarantee acts like as an insurance policy. If your website ever gets hacked or infected, the hosting company or developer will have your back. Make sure you are protected because the reputation of your business crucially depends upon it. So, Are You Ready To Revamp Your Website? Redesigning your company’s website can be the wisest decision as your website is the face of your company. Identify any of these above-mentioned scenarios to save yourself from the panic mode. Your website is the vehicle to help you achieve your target and goals with more lead and ultimately more satisfied customers. The world is becoming a digital jungle, and your website is your biggest business asset in this online universe. With the right strategy, design and content, you can utilize your online space to attract the ideal customers, establish credibility and can convert visitors into buyers and raving fans. Whether you are looking to garner leads, provide information or interested in selling stuff online; be dead-sure about the actions you want your visitors to take on your website. Once you are clear about it, it’s time to start thinking about what elements and communication channels makes the most sense for your website. We are going to outline few ways which can tell the visitors your brand story and help the customers to understand what makes your business, products, and services unique: Have a Clear Value Proposition Be very clear about who your audience is and what you want to communicate with them. Your website has less than 5 seconds to impress and engage a new visitor with it. It’s all about the battle for eyeballs. Make your domain name and the homepage of the website instantly clear about who you are, what you do and what the visitor’s next step would be. Make the Brand Logical Stay true to the brand. When looking at each element and component of your website, do ask yourself this questions “Does your website looks, feel, sound like your company?” The design, usability, font, color, language, tone of your site and the content you created will either develop credibility, increase conversions or might invoke a negative perception in your visitor’s mind which can make them leave the site and never return. You simply can’t take that risk. So, be very clear with your communication. On the “About Us” Page Having the “About Us” page on your website gives a better understanding of your customer whether you are right for them or not. It is also a great opportunity to amuse the customers with your unique story, explaining to them what sets you apart from the other competitors. It can be a brief introduction about your company or a complete timeline of what your company’s achievements have ben this far; but whatever is your brand’s story, make it worth reading. Start the Blog Since a website has to be engaging and should offer more than just your company’s information, Blogging is one of the best ways and a key tool to attract new visitors to the site. You can establish your feat in your industry by sharing information which your target audience is more likely interested in knowing about. So, provide valuable information through a blog and generate a loyal audience. Add Social Buttons Enabling social buttons on prominent places on every page will make things super easy and will help to promote your business. People will easily follow through your social profiles and keep themselves updated and connected with your business. Offer Live Chat Live chat can be extremely effective for getting instant feedback from your audience and converting visitors into buyers and subscribers. Though it’s not suitable for every business, live chat can be a great tool for your website. It’s the effective two-way communication that can be a real game changer. Answer the FAQS FAQS or Frequently Asked Question page helps your customer in finding the answers to the most common questions they could have regarding your product or services. It not only helps your customers with the little issues that need answering, but it has strong benefits in terms of SEO too. It can be a great opportunity builder for internal linking and reduces the number of questions you received by email. Meta Description Meta descriptions have seldom to do with the direct visitors but it communicates an important message to someone coming to your website through Search Engines when they are trying to search something specific. Search engines use description on the SERPS, so it is the perfect opportunity to tell people about that particular page of your website before even visiting it. Through Audio, Videos & Photos A brand can tell their story using photos and videos. Humanize the content on your website through the photos of employees (if permitted) or an engaging video about the product or services that your company is offering. Videos can be a powerful communication tool. Instead of uploading promotional videos on the site, add some creative videos such as employees talking about why they love working here or the customers talking about the products and services they are receiving. Style, Design & the Layout The layout of the website can communicate in a way as which part of the website is important to consider. A layout is important for many reasons and among them is, communication. Typically the site is laid out in a way so that the most important content will be given the most important attention. Colors & Logo A well-designed logo will help in communicating your brand or services with the customers. In terms of branding, a message is being communicated through the logo whether it is professionally designed or some simple text in any website. Colors are capable of communicating subtle messages to the visitors. Colors scheme are the most critical aspect of any web design, not just because they display how your website looks like but more often they have subtle impacts on the visitors and readers too. Conclusion The website is a digital extension of any brand, therefore, you need to understand what exactly your website is communicating to the visitors. Is it doing the right job of telling your brand's story to the targeted audience? Does it reflect brand’s image, values, and goals? To get a better idea, as how and what your website is telling visitors about the brand, look at some above few pointers to increase the communication of your brand’s story to your core audience. Android Game App Development is a developing sector that tends to dominate the gaming world. The increasing user engagement towards mobile gaming apps making it more popular. Smartphone use is not restricted to sending messages, and taking selfies, but also as a means of entertainment. The best way to kill the time when bored is to play a game in the app, which is the reason for so many gaming applications. Mobile app games like Pokemon Go, PUBG, and Candy Crush are the most common gaming applications in the mobile app gaming globe. In addition, mobile phones and tablets have become the first choice of individuals to engage in the virtual gaming area. Users are introduced to so many games that for most people this has become the greatest entertaining source. How Game Engines Work A game engine sets out the software framework to build and create video games. They provide elements ranging from animation to artificial intelligence. Game engines are liable for graphics rendering, collision detection, memory management, and many more choices. Game engines provide developers with tools to create countless gaming apps. Designers often reuse these engines to deliver other games that make it a valuable investment. A game engine includes five components: the main game program that includes the game logic; a rendering engine that can be used to produce 3D animated graphics; an audio engine consisting of sound-related algorithms; a physics engine to enforce 'physical' legislation within the system; and artificial intelligence, a module intended to be used by software engineers with a specialist designation. Below is a list of game engines currently available for anyone interested in game development. Unity With the 2D or android game engine 3D development features, gaming app can be created with the support of a team of developers. You may use the unit store (paid) resources or import assets from a 3D application. A complete guide is available to develop android games for the first time. Other than Android, it supports other platforms such as iOS, Windows Phone, Tizen OS and Fire OS. Games such as Pokémon Go and Angry Birds 2 were based on Unity. Unreal Engine Ideal for a beginner to develop android gaming apps. User-friendly interface support. Changes can be made without extravagant coding. Support great graphics. Supports Android and iOS, Windows PC, Linux, and many others. CocoonJS Create HTML5 games; compatible with Cordova. Use any plugin without downloading from the Cocoon cloud. Supports IOS, Android Wear, and the Amazon App Store plugin after Android. App Game Kit App Game Kit has strategies designed for all stages of developers (from beginner to professional) Uses a language very similar to C++ It is user-friendly. It is cross-platform so that at once a game app can be made available for all platforms. Supports iOS, Blackberry and Windows Phone platform, including Android. Fusion Ideal for an event-based game. User-friendly interface with great graphics support. Helps develop static games. Supports iOS and Windows other than Android. Corona SDK- the 2D Game Engine The best choice for a simpler language platform. Employs Lua scripting (i.e. simple to learn and code with) It's cross-platform. Supports IOS, Windows Phone, Apple / Android TV and Kindle other than Android phones. Corona's community is known for its support and excellent documentation. 2D game development framework for making the game or use plugins from its marketplace. Has real-time stimulus integrated. Amazon Lumberyard It is a game that creates a platform owned and developed by Amazon. Offers free tools - can develop a visually unique game through twitch integration. Cross-platform Supports Android IOS, PC, Xbox One, and PlayStation4. Open source game engine Challenges in Developing Android Game Applications Developing game applications using the Android platform includes certain challenges including: Features do not get used efficiently Proper usage of Android's features in developing games would be the main challenge for any Android App Development Service Provider. Every game built on the Android platform has to offer the finest features and engaging aspects by seamlessly interacting with the local functionality and atmosphere of the device. Focusing on multiple device configurations We all are familiar with the fact that Android hardware configurations have a wide variety; any game built must have a target to achieve maximum reach. if you are building games for particular hardware configurations such as Tegra or Snapdragon, or for particular apps is common to developers of Android games. However, the challenge is that most smartphones, esp LTE handsets, do not support Tegra and migrate to Snapdragon, which raises questions about achieving consistent output across multiple graphics processors. Thinking of an out-of-the-box storyline If you wish to retain more and more customers, creating a captivating story can do wonders. Believe it or not, it's not simple to create Android games with a nice and original storyline. In fact, we could likely say "it's all done before" without failing to tell the truth. There are hundreds of Android games dealing with war, fantasy, racing, etc. Maintaining user-friendliness The most challenging part is to design a game which is unique and captivating yet simple, clear and user-friendly. The game must have easy to understand levels even though it is strategic games you are building. Brainstorming game design Without thoughtful design, no game actually takes on a bigger market or even exist. Any good game design requires a lot of expertise on target devices including its interactive capability and support features. It is quite difficult for developers as well as programmers to integrate current trends and methods while designing a spot-on structure of Android games along with common device-independent features. Final Words There are various mobile game development platforms and tools in the market and we have mentioned the most widespread engines that can help you build some top-notch android game applications. These engines mentioned are the choice of top mobile game development companies. It is difficult to overstate the benefit given to the independent developer or the big-studio team working on the next big game by game engines. While choosing a platform to develop a game, consider your budget (although some are free), ideas, requirements, and expectations. Then choose whatever is the best mobile game development software for you! While using Magento technology, developers may find some of the most advanced tools and techniques to build best Magento websites or upgrade their existing site. Magento is an open source ecommerce platforms, there are some things that Magento developers need to learn before they start utilizing the tools provided by Magento. Some of these tools are new, with enhanced development methods and technologies that developers would choose to utilize in their websites. This article is all about the Magento 2 technology stack requirements. Because some new features are introduced in the new version of the popular e-commerce platform. Some of the most important Magento 2 technology stack requirements are mentioned below: Magento 2 Technology Stack Requirements PHP (Programming Language) Zend Framework (Provided by Zend Engine) PSR-0, PSR-1, PSR-2, PSR-3, and PSR-4 (Coding Standards) Composer HTML5 CSS3 (LESS pre-processor) JQuery RequireJS Symfony Apache Nginx MySQL Gulp Twig Architecture layers diagram: The below diagram shows the components of Magento technology, like the layers and tiers of all components, the 3rd party libraries and the supported databases. 1. PHP Magento 2 technology stack requires PHP 5.5 and 5.6 as by default. But as the new technology arrives it now supports PHP 7 as well. The new version of PHP makes the Magento technology much faster and significantly simplifies a coding routine. 2. Zend Framework Magento 2 platform uses different frameworks which include Zend Framework 1, Zend Framework 2, Symfony, etc. But it doesn't completely rely on ZF as it has its own adapters and interfaces. These interfaces and adapters tunnels call to ZF 1 components. It would be highly beneficial for Magento developers to use the APIs that are provided by official Magento Framework so that they can avoid problems that are directly related to the platform's internal changes. 3. PSR PSR-0,1,2,3 and 4 are some coding standards. Magento 2 technology stack includes these coding standards too. PSR-1 is the most basic coding standard, but it is marked as deprecated therefore PSR-4 is the new replacement. While PSR-0 is the default autoloading standard, and PSR-3 allows the Magento developer to write any code that is independent of any logging implementation. PSR-0 - Autoloader Standard PSR-1 - Basic Coding Standard PSR-2 - Coding Style Guide PSR-3 - Logger Interface PSR-4- Autoloader Standard 4. Composer The composer is the Key Magento 2 technology stack requirement, and it supports whole Magento. The main benefit that Magento developers can get using Composer, is that it introduces a dependency management package for PHP. The Advantages that Composers give are: A. Your Project will only depend on some libraries. B. Some of these libraries depend on other ones. C. You declare the things you depend on. D. The primary job of the composer is to find out which versions of a particular package that needs to be installed, and then installs them by downloading them into your project. 5. HTML5 The structures and presentation of front-end components are handled by HTML5 which is a markup language. Being Magento 2 technology stack requirement, HTML5 simplifies the development and introduces new abilities. 6. CSS3 Magento 2 uses LESS and CSS instead of using Bootstrap in the theme core. The LESS preprocessor and LESS PHP adapter enable the use of LESS in the Magento 2 platform. To read more about Magento UI library, read this post. And this post discuss why Magento uses LESS instead of SASS. 7. JQuery JQuery is incorporated in Magento 2 by default, and is very fast in speed and lightweight, making it speedier and feature-rich which helps Magento 2 platforms to become more functional. 8. RequireJS Another important component of Magento 2 technology stack requirements is RequireJS. This file and module loader is optimized for in-browser use to improve the speed and quality of code. 9. Symfony Symfony- a PHP framework and the most important component of Magento 2 technology stack, used to make best Magento sites. Symfony is a set of reusable PHP components that helps to speed up the e-commerce website platforms because it avoids repetitive coding tasks. One of the serialization standards that is introduced among Symfony components is YAML. YAML is the best format for your configuration files because it makes them readable as INI files and as important as XML files. For further visit the github site and devdoc site. 10. Apache The most important and essential Magento 2 technology stack requirement is Apache 2.2.x or 2.4.x. According to Netcraft, about 60% of all the worlds’ websites, are using Apache server. If you want more information about Apache in Magento 2 check out dev docs site. 11. Nginx Nginx- is another Magento 2 technology stack requirement. Nginx is a reverse proxy server for protocols such as HTTPS, HTTP, POP3, SMTP, and IMAP. It does not only provides your Magento platform speed but also provides low usage of memory by balancing the load, providing an HTTP cache and an origin of web server. 12. MySQL MySQL is an open source database, and many websites rely on MySQL, but now Magento 2 also uses it to make best Magento websites. Magento supports MySQL database reindexing but does not support MySQL statement-based replication. MySQL provides an advantage to many Magento developers by saving their money, time and power up your high-volume Magento 2 project. 13. Gulp Some experienced developers recommend using Gulp instead of Grunt which is a contemporary JavaScript task runner used in Magento 2. Gulp provides Magento technology much faster building processes with streamlines deployment. Developers developed Gulp with an idea to connect community-developed micro-tasks, but Grunt only relies on a set of commonly used tasks. 14. Twig Last but not least, another important Magento 2 technology stack requirement is Twig, which provides the Magento websites fast, flexible and secure PHP template engine. It simplifies your work with themes and templates. It does not provide any .twig template files. Therefore, it uses additionally .phtml files. Check out GitHub official site to find the Twig template engine for Magento 2 technology platform. Conclusion The Magento 2 technology stack is impressive as we can see. Don’t wait more to utilize all these Magento 2 features in your further ecommerce projects. The native support of Redis, Varnish, and Solr compared to 1.x, are the new opportunities. You can see the official Dev docs to see all the Magento technology stack requirements. Did we miss something? Do you have some other features that you think is the best one for you? Do you have any questions related to the technologies we just discussed? Mention them in the comments section below. David Marcus, the head of Facebook’s Calibra, has said that Facebook will not launch the cryptocurrency Libra until it has fully addressed regulatory concerns. The comments are prepared testimony — which outlines how Facebook believes Libra will be regulated globally — he plans on giving tomorrow. The testimony comes in response to apprehensions from leading lawmakers, who have called on Facebook to attest about its tactics to offer banking-related services. It also comes just days after President Trump showed that the social media giant may have to be regulated like a bank in order to offer these services. Marcus says that since the Libra Association is based in Switzerland, he expects Switzerland’s financial regulator will regulate the currency. The association is presently in “preliminary discussions” with the Swiss regulator. There is no charter in place for the Libra Association, which Facebook has formerly said it wants the other members to help design. Without a charter, all discussions are unavoidably primary, and it’s difficult to know how to control something that still doesn’t have rules. In a statement, Marcus said that when it comes to regulating services that offer Libra, such as Calibra and its digital wallet, US and state regulators will have a role to play. According to him, states will evaluate Calibra as a money transmitter, while the Federal Trade Commission will supervise consumer protections. There’s been substantial misperception around how Libra will be regulated in the month since it was announced. So far, Facebook is the major company to have been involve in cryptocurrency, and laws intended to defend consumers and nations from its actions could drastically affect how other cryptocurrencies operate. Storytelling on a company’s website. Sounds interesting, right? Well, just close your eyes and think about the top brands in the world. They all have a story. An interesting premise which their users, consumers, and evangelists can relate to since the inception of the brand till today. Well, humans are emotional creatures and stories are impossible to be resisted by anyone...if you hear a good one! Similarly, storytelling on the website is also important because it is effective in showcasing your brand or the company's image to make people remember it; and also it gives the visitor on the website some visual cues to remember about you. Ideally, storytelling should be at the heart of your overall web development phase. Stories Evoke Emotions Considering this, the story told on your website should be interesting enough to evoke a positive emotion about the products or services offered in your visitor’s mind. Now, for a fact, we encounter different stories in our everyday life. A group of protestors march by or some people doing a rally for their rights. See, every single person, animal or an object has its own story to tell. The stories are not that complicated as they seem. The key part of a successful website is to build a communication bridge between the company and its potential prospects which can be done through the storytelling. The story should be the ‘what’ and ‘why’ of your organization. What are you doing? Why are you doing it? In the terms of Digital Marketing, “If the content is the King then the Queen rules the visuals.” Like in the game of chess, the king can move one space at a time whereas the queen can make some real power moves. This tells that losing the king means losing the game but without your leading lady, there are no powerful moves to make and you will be handicapped. The client always expects of something bigger than just a “website” or a “brand”. They expect an appealing story from you. We are sharing down here some important story-telling tips which will help in representing you and your organization in the best way: Words or Images? Having the information written verbally on your website is simply not enough, so, display it in a manner that people can enjoy and understand it. When a story generates, it doesn’t only move people emotionally but they retell it many times over, ultimately, clarifies the message conveyed in it. Visuals are highly important for a website. One can use pictures to tell stories all the time. Images and videos hold more power over the audience than words. Well-told visual stories can really move, mold, or melt the reader’s, heart. Compelling visual stories will develop strong engagement by evoking emotions, instilling connections with the viewer. Typography is a much more expressive medium because just like images, words also tells a different story depending on the way they are written. Animate the Content! The stories and the art of storytelling plays a major role in content marketing today Sharing the mission and vision of your company in the manner of storytelling will more likely to be remembered. Create appealing content to help in achieving the business goals. Your audience will prefer to purchase a product/service you are offering if you associate a story with the content of your website. Make Sure To Focus On The Authenticity Of Your Story Ensure the clarity and the consistency in your content throughout the website by using a central story. Use props, visuals, and videos to ignite the feeling towards your cause or business in the reader's heart. Write blogs on tips, benefits, and history of your business while telling examples that people can relate to. Communicate With Visuals Storytelling on a website isn’t really a marketing tactic, instead, it is their history which they share with the world. Don’t let your users know verbally as why your brand or company’s product is necessary, applicable and effective, in fact, use the chance of visual storytelling to let them know. Display and video are the two primary purpose for the fastest growing digital marketing. So, the way your brand is seen, will be the most critical to the decision process and buying cycle. Storytelling can be beneficial to any profit or non-profit organization. Test different content types, analyze their results and evolve with the rapid change in the interests of your customers. Show. Don’t Tell! The Conclusion Remember, people don’t necessarily first look for the skills, they look for your ideas, your vision, and your dream as to how far they can take themselves with your company, organization or brand. So, create a story about your brand on your website that compels your potential prospects into believing that you can take them to the height of success and assist them in accomplishing their personal goals through you. Bonus tip: The more specific, clear and concise the stories are transmitted, the more likeable and memorable your business will be. There’s a saying that “Think before you speak”. Similarly, test before you launch. Website testing is a necessary step to take. Cross-browser test­ing, check­ing for dead links, proof-reading these are the things that should get tested before making the site live. This article is all about the steps that are required specifically for starting a Drupal site. Some of the recommendations of Drupal Pre-launch Checklist for developers are: Server Con­fig­u­ra­tion Con­fig­ure Cron: Drupal do have extendable number of Cron jobs that are scheduled to run at different intervals, some of them are to re-index the search mechanism and some are to check for updates. You can make custom modules in Drupal just like other CMS with their defined Cron jobs. These Cron jobs can vary from searching the lat­est Twit­ter feeds to pro­cess­ing mes­sage queues. Without doing Cron jobs, you can run your site, but I would highly recommend that this will let your site to maintain the security by Update status module. If you can go through the official documentation you can see the whole process of the setting up Cron job, or else do have a look at Poor Man’s Cron. It is a functionality offered in Drupal 7 which is a simple back port of automatic Cron-running functionality. Check The Upload Sizes & Execution Time: If you want to allow users to upload large files such as MP3 and MP4 files on your site, then make sure to configure the server first. Allow your server to upload up to an approximate size. And not just uploading, take a look at the max_execution_time setting also. This time setting will get increase if you are uploading large files. Check Recipient Email Addresses: Before launching the Drupal site first make sure to double check that either all the forms, modules, and other things are sending to the correct email addresses or not. Most of the developers forget to update these, once the site is ready, change your own addresses to the client's one. Secu­rity Set The File Permissions: The security is the first concern of any website, so before launching your Drupal site make sure that you correctly configure the security permissions on your file systems. This would help in securing your site from any malicious hackers. Make sure that all files are saved in their particular folders, and also ensure that settings.php file which contains all the information of database connections, is also secured. Make sure that to facilitate for uploading functionality, your files directory needs to be writeable by the web server. We would recommend you to ensure that your installation must be configured with access to a writable temporary directory. To check the whole process of how to give files permissions and ownership and how to install the files directory, check these two official documentation. Pro­tect Your Root Account: Typically during drupal development, you have to develop your site using an admin account. Make sure to secure that account. This account has all the information and the access to your website. And not just the access, but the havoc which could be wrecked by a hacker get­ting access to this account which the network security is not permitting, and to be carried out using a web browser. While building the admin account, choose a secure admin account username instead of just choosing admin, make something difficult to guess. And also make sure that the password must be secure enough. You can use a Drupal module named AES so that you can tighten up the security more. Check Per­mis­sions: Some of the new modules introduce new kind of permissions that are restrictive. These type of agreements have to be manually enabled for many other roles. These include anonymous, registered or custom. One of the main advantages is that only the root user can access the part of the site but not a regular user, hence more security. Before launching, it is highly recommended that you should test the site with each role. Turn Off Error Reporting: Ever witnessed any error messages of Drupal live sites? I have seen them often. These errors are not only Drupal-specific messages. Drupal renders many PHP errors. You have options to either display them or not. To configure them, go to Site Configuration -> Error Reporting. Now set the option of the same name to write errors to the log. Doing so will not display errors. Error Han­dling Han­dle 404 Errors Gracefully: Before launching make sure that the 404 errors (or missing pages) are catered in as helpfully as possible. There is a built-in feature of Drupal in which Error handling page is displayed on pages where there is no block configured. For that, you can use Drupal module named Search 404 or you can use 404 block. This module guesses what the user wants or what user tries to search. It helps the user by feeding terms from URL into the search engine. Search Engine Optimization Check Robots.txt: Don’t forget to check robots.txt before launching. And even before that, ensure that the rel­e­vant sec­tions of your new site are excluded from crawlers. To further understand, see the documentation on Drupal official site. Com­bine Pathauto With Global Redirect: First install a module called Global Redi­rect with an existing module Pathauto mod­ule. You should use these modules on your Drupal site to generate “friendly” URLs auto­mat­i­cally. It works by performing a 301 redirect to aliased path or by analyzing a vis­ited link. You must be thinking, why is this impor­tant? The answer is real simple, if a sin­gle page is acces­si­ble from mul­ti­ple URL’s, for instance, contact-us is an alias for node/123, some other user vis­its node/123 directly what Drupal will do is that it will redi­rect back to contact-me page on your site. By doing so, it can impact neg­a­tively on your search ranking. Main­te­nance Cre­ate A Main­te­nance Page: Make a custom maintenance page for the users who would visit your site during the time when you are upgrading or maintaining your site. Make it more user-friendly and professional. It’s pretty easy to create a cus­tom main­te­nance page from Dru­pal 6 onwards. Check out official documentation for further information on theming Drupal 6 maintenance page. Per­for­mance Con­fig­ure Caching: Caching is the most important part. Before you launch, check your site's caches are fully configured or not. By doing so, Caching will deliver sig­nif­i­cant per­for­mance boosts, par­tic­u­larly on high-traffic sites. Make sure to check if views module has done any pages or blocks or not, because they have to cache switched-off by default. Make sure to configure them as well. Con­fig­ure Css And Javascript Optimisation: You can compress the CSS and JavaScript files by switching on on the end of the development process which is usually turned off during the entire process. Having CSS and JavaScript files more means increas­ing the num­ber of HTTP calls for every page sig­nif­i­cantly. You can “squeeze” all the CSS and JavaScript files. To-do-so, compress­ them at the same time. Con­tent and Publishing Check Unpub­lished Con­tent Is Not Visible: Normally a developer forgets to check the sta­tus of a node before dis­play­ing any custom code for creating a view. That is why draft work could appear after you launched the site. So make sure to check that by checking the fil­ters on your views. Check that any cus­tom SQL includes a test of the sta­tus column. Check Your Rss Feed: RSS feed of your content is generated as a by default on your Drupal site, which includes the feeds for your tax­on­omy terms. You could use Views RSS module in Drupal, this module allows more tight control over what content or stuff should go into your RSS feed. It is critical to take care of that because, in Drupal, the published nodes are promoted to the front page by default. You can deny this access to rss.xml whenever needed. Check Your Favicons: If your sites have a favicon, then make sure that it’s dis­play­ing cor­rectly. If it's not, then you have to unselect the option for Drupal’s default fav­i­con in your theme settings to display on your site. Site Mon­i­tor­ing Con­fig­ure Statistics: Not only security and reliability of a site are a big concern but monitoring is also a big job to do. You can use core statistic module to do the job. Using Advanced Sta­tis­tics set­tings com­pan­ion mod­ule or you can use any ser­vice such as Google Ana­lyt­ics to monitor the site usage is a better option to do. Did we miss anything? Make sure to let us know in the comment section below. Like! Share! Subscribe for more! Market is emerging as fast as it can. With the mobile app, changes in the design of the user interface market are pacing ahead in the competition. Like earlier innovation is always giving rise to the creative designers. Professionals are developing new thoughts for developing distinct mobile app user interfaces in the mobile app redesign process. Gone those times when UI designers were forced to redesign the project without the new development. Now the scenario is reversed, developers are looking for those concepts that will turn into trends or depend on the type of response received by mobile users. Therefore, to keep up with the mobile app redesign competition, one must be well acquainted with the latest design trends. Besides that, the understanding of how the audience is going to transform is must. Corporate changes frequently with the arrival of new trends in app redesign. And every app requires a brand-new look after a certain period of time. All in all, mobile app designing and development company requires a refreshing and attractive design. You can't completely replace the design in simple words. To be clear, this will lead to the loss of all certificates, users and analytics data. With this challenge, the only choice is to restyle an app with a distinct and unique touch while maintaining its original identity with a custom mobile app development process. Why we should consider mobile app redesign? According to the Time News article, 55% of individuals spend less than 15 seconds on a page. What does that imply? You only have 15 seconds to create a perfect first impression, showing what kind of product or service your company offers and why you're worth their time. Business app designing as well as business app development both works effectively if we talk about mobile app design best practices. Here are some of the most common reasons for a mobile app redesign: The app may be outdated – everyone can agree that technology has come so far in the last century or so. This means that any technology considered to be advanced a few years ago is now totally obsolete. Adding more style – the look is almost everything when it comes to developing applications. Finding a successful app that doesn't have amazing graphics is a turn-off. Trends have become a good selling point and it is essential to remain up-to-date. Correcting feature problems that don't work efficiently–the reality is that there are so many trouble-free applications out there. Some of the features incorporated in these apps either don't work well or don't work at all. For such apps, a reminder of the design table is needed to make it more popular with customers. Compatibility is another point worth noting. Some apps operate well with particular screen sizes on certain devices. A redesign can be a very effective way to address this problem. Mobile App Redesign Process The following mobile app design guidelines will help you prepare to redesign your application successfully. Understand Your Goal First! Ask yourself why you are opting for a redesign. Is it time to redesign because the developments in user experience have changed? Is it time to redesign because you've introduced a new feature? Is it time to redesign because the competition provides a better app experience? Once you've recognized the rationale behind the shift, it's essential that you keep coming back to that reason throughout the redesign experience. Your entire design team should know why and be dedicated to attaining this overall objective. Get Insight from Users The success of your app tends to rely on customers accepting it. As such, all necessary measures must be taken to obtain their opinion on your product. You need to communicate the imminent change to individuals who enjoy and frequently use your app. Once you've communicated this, you can engage your users meaningfully and learn what they do and don't like about the current mobile experience or what they'd like to see changed. Maintaining communication with this group of people is essential in choosing which features to remove or add to your app. Customer Reviews & Feedback Matter the Most Each app has two types of data. These data can be either quantitative (centered on the number of people using your app) or qualitative (the individual's response to your product). This data is very crucial because it enables you to thoroughly analyze your product to recognize any weak points. Compile all these data and look for trends. Do you notice that many users complain about a particular feature? Are users asking how to update a particular component of their account? Do users tap a particular button when they try to pick something else? Any imperfections can then be addressed by proposing necessary corrections and efficiently implementing them until the initial issue is fixed. So, how do you understand what reviews to consider? Well, the opinion of the majority matters in the business world specifically applications. You can then call a meeting of your finest designers after collecting this significant data and have them address the issue. Perform the Changes Required You should be prepared to improve your app at this stage. Keep in mind that your finished item must captivate your customers. It has to demonstrate that your team has been determined to provide them with the best possible app. Try as hard as you can to make your app unique but simple to familiarize with. Your modifications should represent the complete potential of your app. It is meant to be intentional. It is meant to be transformative. It is meant to have a permanent effect on both the business and the brand. Do not dismiss the idea of tweaking colors, playing with layouts and other types of experimentation during this part of the process. Furthermore, don't make changes just for the sake of making changes. Don't be afraid to go outside of your comfort zone and bring all these efforts to the table when it's time for an internal review. Test the Changes It is suggested that you have more than one version of your redesigned app. This will allow you to test several applications to come up with one that you will be able to release to the public. So, what's the best way to test your redesigned app efficiency? Many applications have different users. Not all users, however, have a thorough knowledge of what your app is and what it should be. Identifying the key users is therefore essential, particularly during the testing phase. Conducting this type of early research is all about acquiring genuine and raw feedback. You may hear stuff that counteracts your own app views. Monitor Response After the Launch You are now prepared to launch your app after all your hard work. Make sure your updated version is well advertised on the market. Make sure you put a lot of effort into selling your product as well. The public has to notice that you've spent a lot of time looking at various details. Your marketing should be able to persuade customers that the next big thing out there is your application. You should collect all the feedback and get testimonials after launching your app. This data should also be evaluated to see if your new modifications have improved your app. Instagram’s Real-Life Example Since its first appearance, the Instagram app has released a number of updates. The creators recognize the importance of moving with the times. This is one of the keys to achievement in contemporary society. If you compare the first version of the app with the present one, you'll encounter lots of variations that made the project much better. Let's consider in detail what improvements they've made to create Instagram even better than it was. Familiar Icons Instagram has added the icons that we can find in different applications. It made an app even more intuitive, so new customers already comprehend how to use it and what each component means even when they first open it. Obvious Action Now, when you open Instagram, you know which components are clickable and which are not. One of the most significant things here is that the elements you just interacted with react. The simplest instance is a heart that you touch to show that you liked a picture that becomes red. Such a response demonstrates you've done everything right. Animations More and more applications are taking advantage of the animation. For example, Instagram made it possible to view a photo or video without entering a person's account, when you push and hold an image, the window becomes bigger and you can see the photo on a larger scale. It's just one of many examples that teach us to pay attention to these tricks. Organization of Content If you remember the app's old version, we were allowed to post one picture at a time. Now you can publish in one post a few pictures and even a video. We also see more photos on the screen than before. Over the last many years, ecommerce has changed how people buy and sell online. The Internet offers a quick and easy way for people to buy things without having to visit a real store. An online store can reach customers anywhere in the world. Online businesses are rapidly developing an ecommerce website to face times of economic adversity by offering greater discounts, flat-rate delivery, loyalty programs, and other incentives. There are many popular ecommerce platforms that make it easy to run promotions and keep your customers happy. Finally, although the boom in online sales has also opened a potential avenue for fraud and scams, site-builders have managed to stay ahead by offering top-of-the-line site protection and payment security to keep the online marketplace as safe as possible. Building a successful ecommerce site has become one of the most popular business trends. It may seem like a herculean task to set up an online business (not underestimating it either) or the actual e-commerce website development, but in real it isn’t that big of a hurdle as you’ve probably been hearing from most of the folks out there. Doing online business means trades of goods from your Webstore to the customer, and trade means transactions. The idea of creating an online store raises few questions in everyone’s mind like ‘how’ and ‘who’ can build my e-commerce store? On what platforms can my ecommerce store be built? How can I find products to sell on my online store and how the transactions will be handled? Like all business requires proper planning, discussion, backup plans, contingency plan, similarly before building any e-commerce store, you need proper planning about everything. Before starting, you need to think and list down all the possible aspects repercussions regarding online business. Write your e-business plans. The e-commerce plans start with website goals. Who will be your targeted audience? What kind of products and services you want to offer. How much time and money you need to make your online presence. How will you handle shipping and payments? Although there are many ecommerce and website hosting platforms, you must choose a perfect platform where your ecommerce store can be built. It all seems difficult at first, but with every step, you will grasp things easily. A lot of the things which didn’t make sense at first would probably start resonating with time. Here’s a rundown of everything which requires opening an e-commerce store. Let’s get down to business: The Process of E-commerce Website Development- Let’s Get Started! There are many ecommerce tools and technologies required to build an e-commerce store and operate a successful online business. Both software and hardware technologies must be included in your e-business plan. Web Server A web server is used to host an e-commerce website. All the Html, JavaScript, PHP files, databases, media files that make up the entire website are stored on this server. The web server runs on Windows or Linux operating system. Managing a web server is a very specific job. The website development companies host the site on their own web server or pay a hosting company to provide space on a secure web server. Server Software When a user visits any website on a web browser, the web server knows the client is requesting some specific information. So it processes that request and serves the correct files to the client. The web browser then displays these files to the user. There are many types of server software available including application software, database server, file server software, and cloud computing software. The popular web server software includes Apache and Windows IIS. Server software can either use on a physical server or on a virtual / cloud server. Web Tools A web authoring tool is used to create the front end of an e-commerce website. They range from basic HTML text editors (like Notepad++) to more complex graphic authoring tools and CMS (content management system) with built-in frameworks and debugging tools. Html files are created by Dreamweaver along with the CSS (cascading style sheet) which enhance the visual appearance of the site. Another web authoring tool would be Visual Studio .net that can be used to make the sites which have integrated databases in it. Graphic design packages are also web authoring tools which design the skin for a user interface. Database System A database is an integral part of an e-commerce website. The database is used to store information about the products and services of the website such as pricing, description, image, details, and sales. In addition to this, the customer details are also stored in the database like what they ordered, their payment details, shipping details, and contact information. It is necessary to program the website to connect securely to the database so that all the orders are processed correctly and your business runs smoothly. Technologies like PHP and MySQL are the communication route between the website and the DBMS (database management system). Networking TCP (transfer control protocol) and IP (internet protocol) defines as how computers should connect with each other through the internet and how they share information. Common TCP/IP protocols are HTTPS, HTTP, and FTP. We use these protocols to access the website without even realizing it. FTP (file transfer protocol) used to download files from a browser. HTTPS (where the “S” stands for security) responsible for the secure communication between a server and a browser like an account information or personal information. For an e-commerce website or online store, it is considered essential to provide a secure connection. SSL (secure sockets layer) and TLS (transport layer security) are the protocols associated with trust and security of any e-commerce website. Browser Compatibility A web browser is a software application that is used to locate, receive and display content received from the web servers. Popular web browsers include Mozilla Firefox, Google Chrome, Internet Explorer and Safari. Web developers and Web development agencies test the website see how it displays on multiple browsers across multiple devices and screen sizes before launching the website. The Tip: To analyze website traffics, use tools like Google Analytics to get an idea as what browsers people are using and which one is the most popular. Ports Ports allow one device to connect with the other through a different and unique IP address. A device can have more than one port. Port 25 (SMTP) is usually reserved for email. It is used to transmit data from remote email servers. If that port is blocked no emails can be sent. Some other common port numbers are 80(HTTP), 443 (HTTPS), 21 (FTP), 22 (SSH). Firewalls can often block a port to tighten the security. Domain Names Domain names link to a company or a brand. Successful e-commerce companies have recognizable domain names. If you have any smaller business then it is best to select the domain name as per your business name. This would help to rank highly in search engines. If a business becomes successful online, it is important to protect the brand by doing multiple registrations of domain names such as .com, .net, .uk, .org, .co Doing this ensures that no one can steal your business by copying your business model. Here is a quick recap that will help you put everything into place. 1: Front End: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Ajax, JQuery 2: Server Side Scripting: PHP, ASP 3: CMS: Wordpress + Woo commerce, Magento, OpenCart, PrestaShop 4: Database: MySQL, MSSQL What is business development for ecommerce? Business development is a relatively vague term with a purpose and responsibility that differs from company to company. While the definition has been infinitely discussed, the ultimate objective of business development is to find strategic opportunities that create long-term value. Web Technologies for E-Commerce Web Development Websites and apps have become crucial for businesses and organizations to showcase their services, goods, and brands. To this end, you need a website that is well designed with feature-rich apps. Modern ecommerce web technologies have acquired a status where it’s not mandatory for businesses to develop e-commerce websites or apps right from scratch. Here are the ten latest web technologies for e-commerce web development that will help you make a practical decision. Magento Shopify WooCommerce BigCommerce OpenCart Drupal Commerce Volusion OsCommerce SimpleCart Squarespace Magento Till date, Magento is the most famous and reliable e-commerce platform when it comes to B2B & B2C customers. Magento is a powerful SEO friendly platform with multiple features that can be readily customized. Magento's ability to integrate with third-party products & services makes it a favorite among the customer community. Shopify For an e-commerce website, Shopify is a very popular SEO compliant and constantly evolving web technology. Besides an impressive professionally designed template for your storefront, there are several add-ons with responsive checkout being one of them. Another excellent feature is that Bitcoins can be used by your customers to make payments. WooCommerce WooCommerce is undoubtedly an amazing choice for problem-free setups. It is a free e-commerce plugin that can integrate with WordPress enabling store owners to sell their products rapidly and easily. It is estimated that around 30 percent of online store owners rely on WooCommerce plugin not only to sell their products but also to ship them and collect payments. BigCommerce BigCommerce is quite popular because it has several new features and functions like built-in blogging, improved SEO and customer support round the clock. Its primary benefits are a user-friendly interface with a comprehensive knowledge base. OpenCart OpenCart is a practical and easy open source CMS endorsed by outstanding developers for e-commerce. Its features include several simple back-end plug-ins. You can edit CSS within the admin. But OpenCart's support system is not very detailed compared to other systems. Drupal Commerce Drupal Commerce is an exceptional online content marketing platform for open-source content. It guarantees an excellent customer experience using the e-commerce website. It can easily incorporate SEO strategy and blog integration as it can integrate seamlessly with the Drupal CMS framework. Volusion Volusion is commonly used owing to several features, one of which is an easy-to-use interface. Although Volusion's add-on shop is not as big as Shopify and a blog setup is not available, but account experts provide you with personalized services. Opposed to a responsive layout, the mobile site is used by Volusion stores. OsCommerce OsCommerce is one of the first open source systems available with a big support database and an active forum. Its prominence is due to its easy installation and user-friendly interface. Although some consumers consider OsCommerce's design and software update to be a little outdated store owner have complete control over their store and database. SimpleCart SimpleCart is best suited to small online stores ' needs. It operates on HTML having a small footprint but supporting multiple currencies. Squarespace Squarespace enables you to design attractive websites with images and rich templates. With Squarespace, customers have complete control over inventories, product variants, coupon generation, and shipping setup. Squarespace inculcates all the essential tools to create a universal e-commerce store. Ecommerce Technology Trends for 2019 Regardless of the maturity of your ecommerce presence, you need to keep looking ahead to guarantee future success. To raise your ecommerce efforts in 2019, you should benefit from these three evolving trends. 1. Sell your goods on social media Effective marketing is about enhancing your messaging to appeal to your target audience, but messaging won’t matter if the audience never sees it. It’s important to meet your audience members where they spend most of their time. In other words, if your customer base is online, it’s on social media one-third of that time. Therefore, you’re missing a great opportunity if you are not selling on social media. 2. Remix the buyer’s reality Although diverse reality technologies have yet to see conventional adoption, they have made huge efforts to that end. Just as the internet, augmented reality and virtual reality will be a total game changer for retail. While augmented reality might not be everywhere yet, ecommerce retailers that effectively integrate AR capabilities into the shopping experience tend to gain a substantial advantage over their competitors. 3. Increase Personalization and Customer Engagement Compared to conventional retail shopping, ecommerce stores have virtually no personal interaction. Online stores have no personnel who can endorse products based on your interests, sensitivities, and predilections. To imitate this experience, ecommerce businesses influence personalization opportunities through the shopping drive. Just as online course providers are substituting the need for in-person teaching, ecommerce is swapping the need for in-store retail experiences. Conclusion There are multiple e-commerce tools and technologies. It’s always good to know what resources are actually required to build an ecommerce store from start-to-finish. Professional ecommerce website design process is a documented outline of the steps needed to be taken from start to finish, which divides and categorizes the work and then breaks these high-level sections into tasks and resources. But once you have gone through the complete guide to the technologies needed for building an e-commerce site, things will become easier and systematic and will make your ecommerce development process smooth and fluid. While there’s been a lot of work on the growth and development of ecommerce, there are aspects of the technology that needs to be unearthed. So you are planning to build a new website? And you have chosen WordPress as your website platform! Congrats you have made a wise decision, because of its versatility and ease of use!! WordPress powers up 25% of the internet, pretty big figure. Isn’t it?!! If you are new to WordPress.org then you probably don't know anything about it and WordPress.com, and probably you are about to change your mind…. But wait!! This article is here to help you out!! There are two types of hosting for WordPress, WordPress.org which is Self-Hosted and WordPress.com that is free to use. Now you know about these two hosting but still the question is which one to use because hosting is the main ingredient of a perfect website recipe. We are going to explore these two flavors of “WordPress” and will compare the pros and cons of them. The differences between them: Compare their: -Costs -Freedoms and limitations -Maintenance and the development Which one to go with .org or .com? From this point on forget and say bye forever to the confusion and welcome to the knowledge about both the platforms. Let’s move on to first stop: What is WordPress.com? We are going to give you a brief idea about what is WordPress.com? WordPress.com is the commercial site that was co-created by Mutt Mullenweg and his company called Automatic. He made this platform open source and that means you can use it for free but yes it do have some limitations. So the question is if the limitations are there then why would I have to use this free platform?? The answer is, upgrade your site and VOILA!! You can achieve your specific needs by upgrading your site and it will get looked after with top of the line spam-fighting power and automatic security updates. To use it, all you have to do download it and place it in the public folder of your host, Signup and choose your blog name, then just design your site as you required. Don’t worry for the installation as it will be managed right on the spot. What is WordPress.org? Using WordPress means your website is in your hands completely. (Yes really!!) The only limitation might here would be the resources that your hosting package provides you. WordPress.org is the platform where you can grab your own CMS copy for free, isn’t it good? This software owns the responsibility of finding the hosting company to house the WordPress site with your own domain name that will help your visitors to point to it. It provides you the facility to get involve in the community forum where you can ask any (relevant) question if you get stuck anywhere and also you can use the extensive documentations as well. If you like to get involved and join many other volunteers who contribute to the WordPress core code, mobile apps and translations than this site is good for you to use. Comparison between WordPress.com & WordPress.org: To give you the best remedy against your problem, which one’s right for you? Let us compare these two platforms by considering three of things: cost, freedoms and the limitations, and maintenance and development. Cost: At this time when we are going to compare cost of WordPress.com and WordPress.org, we have to look at four aspect associated with both of them. They include: domain name, hosting, storage medium and ad removal. If you want a fully featured website with your own domain name then go on with WordPress.org but if you can compromise on domain name and want a free platform then go for WordPress.com. If cost is the most considerable part of your business plan then download WordPress from WordPress.org is the best option for you. Let’s get in more depth to better understand your choices. WordPress.com: No matter what, the hosting of your site on WordPress.com is free, but there are some limitations. But there is also some good news, they can be removed with upgrades or plans that can be applied to each of your sites. I have mentioned all the upgrades that you can choose from to have more control over your site on WordPress.com: *Note that all of them but last two are annual subscriptions: $13 for Site redirect $120 for Unlimited premium themes $5 for Domain registration $13 for Domain mapping $8 per Domain for Domain Privacy $60 for Video Press $30 for Custom design $20 - $290 for Space upgrade $30 for No ads Starting from $20 for Premium theme, one-off fee $129 for Guided transfer, one-off fee After getting know all the upgrades, it's important for you to know for a newly registered domain you are working on, you also need the mapping upgrade. After setting up your website if you think that you need several upgrades, than you might be able to save some money if you upgrade to one of the WordPress.com plans, instead. The above displayed picture is the current hosting plans at WordPress.com. You can select any of the upgrade package according to your need. But still if you want a site with full fledge features and with your own domain name, unlimited storage for the videos and the images, with no advertising, then WordPress.com can be quite expensive for you to use. WordPress.org: If you are working with this platform you can download the copy of free software. But keep in mind that hosting your own WordPress site is not free, so what to do now? You can easily choose any hosting company. There are thousands of out there who can provide you what you want. All you have to do is to check out which plan suits best for your need. You can pay for the hosting as low as around $5 per month if you are using shared hosting packages, depends on your company as many of them offer regular promos. But if you want hosting that is shared by much fewer people you can go for VPS (Virtual Private Server) and dedicated server packages, obviously you have to pay more if you choose this option. And yes about domain names, if you want to use generic top level domain name such as .com, .org or .net then the costing will be around $10. There are some more gTLDs which are .rocks, .company, .ceo and many more which are also available from last year and are starting from $10 over $100. At result of choosing WordPress.org you will have your full control over your site, it doesn’t matter which hosting company you choose. Freedoms & Limitations: The site you are building, truly depends on the choice you make while choosing hosting for your site. The freedom and wiggling room from a custom design to tweaking your site’s files or database all depends on your goals and your choices. WordPress.com If you are hosting your site with WordPress.com, then there would be limitations too for the folks who are running their businesses on WordPress.com. WordPress.com provides the environment that is ready to use with the maintenance of the software so that you can experience the things with in the secured environment, but in return you have to pay if you are doing any upgrades. The limitations that are included are: Limited to WordPress.com themes and plugins – you can’t upload your own Limited storage space with limited control of your content You must pay to remove ads No FTP access to your files No use of third party tools such as Google AdSense WordPress.org The only limitation using WordPress.org is the amount of the storage you have and the hosting features provided by the hosting company, you have your own server and which means you have the freedom whatever you want to do. About the themes and plugins you can use any of them free or paid and without ads, and if you wish to add your own just use Google Adsense. Can use Google Adsense Add edit or delete files and databases FTP,shell and cPanel access to the files You can use this platform without any limitations but it depends on your sense responsibility of maintaining it, unlike WordPress.com. Development and Maintenance: If you choose WordPress.com than you don’t have to worry about the maintenance but if you are using WordPress.org, it is truly your responsibility then, for that there are many hosting solutions available to help you out. When it comes to the developing, no matter what you use, you don’t have to worry about anything (Thank God!). The WordPress team works hard to provide the regular updates on the WordPress core code in order to make sure that your site have a solid foundation. Don’t know anything technical or don’t have time to commit to ongoing maintenance and development?? Then WordPress.com is the best option for you. The more explanations are mentioned below. WordPress.com: The WordPress team and community will take care of all the maintenance and development work for you, in short you don’t have to do anything regarding maintenance and development whenever you upgrade or due to problem with your host your site suddenly going down. You don’t have to keep yourself up-to-date with the WordPress news. And you don’t have to upgrade your site every time a new version of software is released. WordPress.org: If you are hosting your own WordPress site that doesn’t mean that you will not face difficulties, in fact you are fully responsible for your own site performance and development. The responsibilities on you are: Install and then set up your WordPress site Configure your server for VPS and dedicated hosting Regularly update your themes and plugins and WordPress version when new versions roll out Keep your site secure for your visitors and protecting your site against hackers and spam Back up your whole site regularly in case it breaks Resolve problems with your site and server if they happens If you love WordPress.org because of the flexibility this platform provide but you feel confuse as how to keep your site maintained, then worry not WordPress is a platform that provides you the solution of every problem including this. Use a WordPress hosting solution which includes Pagely or WP Engine. Just use this tool and it will look after all the backend maintenance for you, but, you have to pay more in order to sit back and watch the show (Maintenance). Which one to choose? At this point you may be have made your decision… Still no? Let me tell you both are great options for you to choose but select the one by keeping in mind your plans about your sites, what are the skills level that you have and lastly how much time can you give to your site maintenance and designing. If you are creating a simple blog website, and you don’t want to fuss with the security and the regular maintenance and the customization is not too much, then I would suggest to go for WordPress.com. But if you are on the other side of the picture, and want a fuller control over the site, the design, the plugins that you are using , the files of the software and database with freedom to do so, and if there is no issue of security and maintenance of your site than WordPress.org will be your best bet. Also if you are planning to develop an ecommerce site, social media or large business site that the self-hosted, WordPress site can be cheaper for you and offers more flexibility. If you are planning to grow your site and to increase traffic, then download WordPress.org from WordPress is the best option and also our recommendation for you. Want to share your experience with WordPress.com and WordPress.org? Let me know in the comments below. Researchers have created an AI algorithm that can solve a Rubiks Cube in a fraction of a second, quicker than most people. The work is a step towards creating AI systems that can think, reason, plan, and make decisions. The study, released in the journal Nature Machine Intelligence, demonstrates that DeepCubeA, a profound reinforcement learning algorithm programmed by computer scientists and mathematicians at the University of California, can solve the Rubik's Cube in a fraction of a second without any particular domain knowledge or human in-game training. This is not a simple task considering that the cube has completion paths numbering in the billions but only one goal state-each of six sides showing a solid color-which apparently cannot be discovered through random moves. "Artificial Intelligence can defeat the world's best human chess and Go players, but some of the more difficult puzzles, such as the Rubik's Cube, had not been solved by computers, so we thought they were open for AI approaches," said study author Pierre Baldi, Professor at the University of California. "The solution to the Rubik's Cube involves more symbolic, mathematical and abstract thinking, so a deep learning machine that can crack such a puzzle is getting closer to becoming a system that can think, reason, plan and make decisions," Baldi said. The scientists proved that DeepCubeA solved 100 percent of all test configurations for the research, finding the fastest route to goal state about 60 percent of the time. The algorithm also operates on other combinatorial games such as the puzzle of sliding tiles, Lights Out and Sokoban. The researchers were interested in knowing how and why Artificial Intelligence (AI) created its moves and how long it took to perfect its technique. "It learned on its own, our AI takes about 20 moves, most of the time solving it in the minimum number of steps," Baldi said. "Right there, you can see the strategy is different, so my best guess is that the AI's form of reasoning is completely different from a human's," he added. According to the researchers, the ultimate goal of such projects is to build the next generation of AI systems. As an Ecommerce store owner, you would always want to develop an Ecommerce site that is flexible as well as secure with many advantages. PHP-based open-source CMS platforms are a blessing. By using them, you can quickly develop attractive eCommerce store. Talking about Magento 2 Development, Magento 2 makes ECommerce development easy for you. Magento 2 Process is same as compared to WordPress, Joomla, and Drupal. There is a lot of ECommerce growth in 2017 with Magento 2, which shows that how much Magento 2 advantages are there. Magento 2 usability is one of the benefits that merchants can use, by using Magento 2 plugins and extensions. To develop a full-fledged and functional site one can use Magento 2 extensions and plugins. You can make user-friendly eCommerce store with Magento 2. These are some Magento 2 advantages that will help you to understand why you should choose Magento 2 for developing eCommerce store. From End-Users’ Perspective 1. Personalization Magento also takes steps to get improvised as new technologies arrive. You can now track shopper's behavior, their preferences and previous history using Magento 2. This is the first Magento 2 advantage. That's how Magento 2 makes ecommerce development easy. By collecting all this data, You can offer them highly personalized experiences while they shop from your store. 2. Advanced Search Many of the users are tech savvy nowadays. Thus the users love to use the search features. You can take advantage of this habit of your users and can suggest them a search page or content that they love to see. Magento 2 makes ECommerce development easy. Now you can use filtered search and faceted search to provide ease for your customers. 3. Streamlined Checkout Magento 2 now have the new process to streamline the checkout process that tells us that the future of E Commerce is Magento 2. Magento 2 have cut down the shopping cart abandonment rate more easily as compared to the previous versions. So the checkout process has to address the deal rapidly without any hassle to achieve a high conversion rate. This is one more great Magento 2 advantage. E-commerce growth in 2017 with Magento 2 is increased just because of all these benefits of this great platform. From Store Owners’ Perspective 1. Magento 2 Usability Usability is one of the advantages of Magento 2 that can help you out why you should choose Magento 2 for building up an eCommerce site. All the tools at the backend like automation and management of order, sales, and shipping, the inventory of products and the reporting of the products and orders all provide the ease of use to the users and make the experience useful for backend users. 2. The Optimization Capability Doing SEO on your site is the most important thing to do to make sure that the customers can reach to your site. Magento 2 do come with features that can optimize the SEO and SMO parameters with the modular approaches. Choosing it, let you use the drag and drop visual merchandising for product optimization. 3. Internationalization Among many other Magento 2 advantages , the best in Magento 2 Development is the internationalization. This Magento 2 feature allows you to go beyond the national limits. So that international customer also has your services. Magento 2 makes eCommerce development accessible by providing the functionality to support other languages and currencies of different regions of the world. 4. Responsive Design Nowadays the customers prefer to buy online things using their mobile phones. If you have a site that is not mobile friendly, it can cause you a lot of trouble. By having responsive design feature, you can develop attractive eCommerce store with Magento 2 so that your customers can access your sites on their smartphone gadgets. Magento 2 development provides cross-platform compatibility with cross- browser compatibility and device form agnostic compatibility for your website is an ideal platform for this era. From Developers’ Perspectives 1. Open Source Magento 2 development has made in PHP which is an open source programming language. That means Magento 2 is an open source platform which makes the ECommerce development easy. It allows the developers to use every kind of templates with proper extensions and modules with widgets. You can have documentations, training and consult regarding any situation by the Magento 2 community. the future of ECommerce is Magento 2 because it provides a program that is user-centric ECommerce storefronts. 2. Easy Integration Now is the era of big data with NoSQL- like databases which mean that the integration of the store with the database is a significant conflict. Magento 2 makes eCommerce development easy by providing easy integration with the variety of databases that includes web/cloud services and third-party tools. 3. Magento 2 Compatibility Magento 2 development is done on PHP framework including Zend that provides compatibility with latest versions of PHP. Also, Magento 2 works fine with databases including MySQL, Oracle, and Hadoop whenever there is a requirement. 4. Speed You can quickly build User friendly Ecommerce Store With Magento 2 which provides 20% more speed as compared to Magento 1.x. Speed is the primary requirement that user wants from a website thus by having a feature to increase the performance Magento 2 is the most favorite platform used by many eCommerce store developers all over the world. 5. Smoothness Magento 2 has JavaScript library as a default jQuery library which makes it a hassle-free CMS to use. That is why developers love to use it, and Magento 2 makes e-commerce development easy. By having default JavaScript library avoids jQuery and Prototype problems while developers create innovative features and functionalities. 6. Security Because of the changes structure of directories in the source, Magento 2 is more secure than the previous versions, and we can say that future of eCommerce is Magento 2. The earlier version had nine folders in the root, but Magento 2 only have 5, and it has removed skin folder from the root directory. The JS, SKIN, ERROR, etc. folders shifted to a new directory called "Pub." This changes structure have made the Magento 2 more secure and more tough to steal or hack code directly from the root folder. 7. Rapid Development "View in Module" - the new concept provided by Magento 2 development. The benefit that Magento 2 gives is it have removed complexity and reduced development time considerably, and e-commerce growth in 2017 with Magento 2 is growing. It helps in the creation of view that can start work immediately after the developer defines the configurations. 8. Flexibility Magento 2 development offers the component based structure of modules. Modules provide the developers the freedom so that they can enable or can disable the components that they want or that they don't want. This structure enhances the flexibility and performance of the Magento 2 based website. Conclusion Modern online business nowadays is becoming more and more challenging and more sophisticated. Mobile internet is accessible. Thus online stores are more trendy everywhere. All the new and modern E-shops needed to get equipped with all the modern equipment so that the Online shops can meet the increasing expectations of the new generation shoppers. Magento 2 have accomplished many of them. Many features including flexibility, performance, security, exceptional shopping experiences, Magento 2 makes e-commerce development easy. And we can say that eCommerce growth in 2017 with Magento 2. Lets us know the Magento 2 advantage that you considered while choosing Magento 2 for developing eCommerce store. Have we missed something? Comment in the comment section below and show us your love. Do you have a mailing list operating along with your blog? If not, you should definitely think about setting up one. But how are you supposed to do that? There are plenty of choices available when you're prepared to start your email list or newsletter. You can compose the email content yourself, hire writers to do so, or perhaps you can't even think about starting an email campaign because your daily to-do list just won't handle another job to accomplish. You'll understand how to set up an RSS to email campaign for your WordPress blog by the end of this post. This post will educate you on how to use your blog's RSS feed to create email campaigns, helping you see why you can't afford to work with an RSS-email combination. So, let us start by giving you a brief definition of RSS-email is all about. RSS stands for Really Simple Syndication. Wikipedia defines it as; A type of web feed that enables users to access online content updates in a standardized, computer-readable format.” In short, it's a content "feed" that is meant to be read by an RSS aggregator/reader. This is a very easy way to compile new content from your favorite blogs into one convenient source WordPress custom RSS feed may contain content such as blog posts, news articles, social content, podcast episodes, property listings, work vacancies, etc. Website content management systems (CMSs) such as WordPress create custom RSS feeds as a default and can be utilized without any additional configuration. It can be used to develop newsletter campaigns for sending new blog posts to your subscribers. Also, WordPress automatically generates an RSS feed listing on all your blog posts. Why Set Up RSS Newsletter Campaign? There are countless reasons and advantages of sending your subscribers periodic emails with your blog’s new content. Provide New Content Update Of course, the primary purpose of an RSS campaign is to share your fancy, new content with anyone who intends to read. By sending it to your focused subscriber list, you put your content in front of people who are willing to read it, or at least look at the title to consider reading it (make sure your titles are robust). Keep the Audience Engaged You can give your public a curated list of content that is useful to them and includes stuff like recommendations and calls to action that will give them some value. Providing value (substances that really help) is the best way to build a brand that individuals appreciate and want to interact with (e.g. purchase from). Get Better at Writing Email Content You can benefit from the actions your readers follow. An ESP will inform you how many emails have been opened and the rate of click-throughs for each email. From this, you can also tell which blog titles work, which are ignored, and which blog content convinces readers to go most efficiently with the proposed call-to-action. Optimize Mail Schedules Most RSS email campaigns allow marketers to set a scheduled time and date for the content to be mailed out to their list. For your specific group of subscribers, most good service providers will enable you to see which time of the day results in the greatest rate of emails being opened. Benefits of WordPress RSS to Email By default, creating a custom RSS feed in WordPress is available. It is an excellent way to repurpose your content. Email RSS automates delivery, decreasing resource requirements. Engaging newsletters are a great way to expand subscribers How to Set Up RSS to Email Newsletter in WordPress Do you wish to send weekly roundup posts from your blog via email to your subscribers? Let's look at how you can readily start an email newsletter to expand your own business and brand. To build RSS campaigns, visit the Campaigns page after signing into your MailChimp account. Click Create Campaign. Click Creating an Email in the appearing in the modal popup. Select Share blog updates in the Automated tab. Now you will be asked to indicate the name of a campaign and choose a list. Then click Start. Next, you need to state your RSS feed URL select your sending time. If you are not sure about your RSS feed URL, you can simply specify your blog URL. The time interval could be something like daily, weekly, or monthly. Choose your blog's best sending time. You can pick the checkbox to resize your RSS feed images to match your template if you wish to. You'll need to choose your list now and then specify your campaign details. You will be asked to pick a template in the next step. So, to make your email look simple and pretty. You can now begin tailoring your template to your personal preferences. Now add RSS items to the design panel. Click Enter Preview mode under the Preview and Test option to view the design. You can go back to the design panel and make the needed modifications according to your demands. Once you're finished, you can press Start RSS to send your RSS campaign based on the schedule you've chosen. Constraints of RSS to Email The limitations are very much dependent on the service you use to deliver your content and what you want to accomplish. RSS to Email is ideal for basic automated content delivery when it is released to your subscribers. When you wish to style RSS content in your newsletter, you need to make sure that the service you choose offers you the flexibility you need. Most ESPs will provide the capacity to style RSS components in your newsletter. However, most services only allow you to automate a single RSS feed in any newsletter. This presents you three alternatives if you want to automate more than one feed in one newsletter:- Incorporate the content into a single feed and provide your subscribers with all of your content from all sources, whether relevant or not. Create multiple newsletters — so if a subscriber has multiple interests, they will receive multiple newsletters. Not ideal for anyone’s inbox zero attempts. Use a service that is optimized to deliver various RSS feeds. Most smaller newsletters use the first method, many newsletters opt for the second but a growing number are seeing the value of email newsletters in multi-RSS. A newly published patent has revealed that software giant Microsoft xCloud could beat Google Stadia for smartphone gaming, with xCloud’s specific focus on smartphones. Divulged by Windowlatest, the patent is for two controllers that would attach to either side of a smartphone, allowing you to use the handset for gaming without using touch controls. While technically the patent is for the device that would be used to charge these controllers, it gives us a close look at the device altogether. The controllers use spring clips to attach to either side of the smartphone, and have buttons that are very similar to what you'd see on an Xbox One controller. When attached to a smartphone, the resulting device looks rather similar to a Nintendo Switch in portable mode. Since touchscreen controls can often be rather tricky on smartphones, chiefly for action games like Fortnite or PUBG Mobile that need super-fast reflexes, numerous users find gaming peripherals valuable. No wonder, a company with a big gaming branch-like Microsoft is pursuing them. Nevertheless, with preliminary testing for xCloud getting ever faster, it makes us wonder if the patents could be part of Microsoft's plan to take on Google Stadia. The patent indicates Microsoft is putting smartphones—and perhaps tablets—alongside computers and TVs as screens to play games on. Although we are not sure if that’s exactly the case, we're hoping to get practical with both Stadia and xCloud by year-end and in the future. Drupal - the open source framework, is used by 2.2% of the websites around the world. Which is indeed a pretty big figure! It powers all types of websites from blogs to govt. sites. But all these useful features will not help you if your Drupal site is not speedy. Speed matters when it comes to the performance of the site. To ensure your site is performing the best, it is important to check the speed first. Don't worry! This blog post will help you to solve all the problems related to the speed with the Drupal site. There are 11 tips to speed up Drupal Performance. This article will help you as how you can re-architect your website so that it doesn’t get bogged down from high volume traffic. Latest Version: The first tip to speed up Drupal performance is to check whether you have the latest version of the framework installed or not. As Drupal developers update the drupal versions, they keep removing bugs that helps improving your site performance. Always follow the most recent version of Drupal. To check and run updates, all you have to do is to navigate to "Reports" ->" Available Updates." Or just click on "Check Manually" to scan for new Updates. Content Delivery Network: If you have CDN (content delivery network), you will see Drupal instantly decreased load time for your website. This tip of speeding your Drupal site will let you make sure that you are providing your assets faster to your visitors thus, reducing latency. Utilize Caching: Drupal do have the caching option. That is the way to let your side speed up thus improving your site performance. By default, this option is turned off. There are Four types of caches that you can enable. Page Caching To allow the page caching all you have to do is to navigate to "Configuration" -> "Development" -> "Performance." Now Enable "Cache Pages for Anonymous Users" and also "Cache Block." Hit "Save Configuration." Views Caching One of the most popular modules of Drupal is this module. After installing, just enable the caching on it so that it can run faster. Navigate to "Administration"-> "Structure" -> "Views". Now just click "Edit" on the view whose cache you want to allow. Now expand the "Advance Box" then select "Time-Based" and lastly click on "Apply (All Displays)." Panel Caching This is the most popular module that Drupal users love to use. To make them speedy, you can enable cache on each panel. To enable the cache you have to go to "Administration" -> "Structure"-> "Pages." Now from here navigate to "Variants"-> "Content" -> "Caching" and now click "Change". After you’re done with it, now select "Simple Cache and then click "Next." Before clicking on "Save," you can select your Cache time duration from here. PHP Caching To increases the speed of Drupal installs, Developers, and Drupal lovers love to use PHP Cache (APC) Alternative PHP Cache. Image Optimization Websites page contains almost 56% of images which is too much. The images tend to take more time to load correctly. So to save the time it is good to compress these images that will decrease your page loading times. That is the recommended tip to speed up your Drupal site. If we talk about Drupal 6 and 7 versions, the compression rate on JPEGs are set to 75% you can change it as per your need. To modify the compression ratio just go to "Configuration" -> "Image Toolkit." Now adjust the % rate and then to save them click on "Save Configuration." Lazy Image Loading Lazy load is the module that can quickly and dramatically increase your page load time. It will ensure that the only image will load when it is visible to the browser window. Thinking about advantages? It is the world's most used Drupal module with a little over 18,000 downloads. Also, you can use the module like "Image Resize Filter" so that you aren't relying on CSS to scale them down. They will scaup graded once you upload them. 404s You can check your website through an external service like using the "Online Broken Link Checker" or a tool like "Screaming Frog" instead of using the module for this job. By doing this, you will be ensured that your server's resources are wasted on this task. And yes, Drupal have pretty much expensive 404 errors. On an average, your server uses 60-1000MB of memory consumed just to deliver a 404. But don't worry "Drupal Fast 404" module provides you the solution of displaying 404 displays by just using only 1 MB memory of the server's memory. Disable Unnecessary Modules Drupal also have overhead attached plugins and modules just like any other CMS platform. So to speed up your site, it is recommended that never run more than 50 modules. These are some modules that you can disable if you don't need the functionality of your site. Administration Development tools Devel and Devel node access Field, Rules, and Views UI Module Filter Blog and Forum Taxonomy and Search Help and Shortcut Dashboard Database Logging Color and Toolbar Tracker and Statistics Update Manager CSS/JS Aggregation By aggregating you are reducing the total number of HTTP request being made. Also, you can improve the front end performance and download times. To use it you have to enable it, navigate to "Configuration" -> "Development" ->"performance". Now enable the "Aggregate CSS Files and Aggregate Javascript Files." After modifying, "Save Configuration." Reverse Proxy Server "Reverse Proxy Caching or HTTP accelerator" means to place another app that will serve cached copies of your web pages. Most of the high traffic websites like Wikipedia, Facebook, Twitter, etc. uses Varnish. Two Drupal two most popular modules are there whenever it comes to Varnish usage. Varnish Cache Expiration Additional Tweaks With the "Clientside Validation" module, add client side validation for web forms using jQuery. When it comes to choosing the Web host, always prefer Drupal-Specific host for your Drupal site to make it more speedy. To disable the database logging use "Syslog-ng" module. Always turn off the PHP filter module speed up your site. If your database is running slow just check it using "DB Tuner" module. Choosing Fast Web Hosting When trying to improve the performance of the Drupal site, choose a good hosting. It is a tip to speed up your Drupal performance. We strictly recommend you to stay away from cheap hosting providers as they provide shared resources causing your site to get slow. Going with VPS like Digital Ocean, Linode, or Vultr is the best thing while choosing web hosting. Summary The above mentioned 11 Tips are helpful to Speed Up Drupal Performance. Only you have to know where to look. Do you have any other way or tip that you are using to speed up Drupal that we are missing here? We would love to hear them. Comment them and let us know other Tips to Speed Up Drupal Performance that you are using. PHP is a stand-out among the famous web programming languages and is utilized to build complex websites and web apps. The top best PHP frameworks of 2017 includes CakePHP, Laravel, CodeIgniter, Symfony and some others. What is PHP and why we use PHP Frameworks? PHP is free, open source, server-side scripting language. It is a very popular, secure and stable scripting language. The usage of PHP frameworks is increasing day by day. The PHP frameworks let developers to initiate innovative modern website development practices. Here are some top reasons for developers to adapt the best PHP frameworks and see how these top frameworks of PHP can level up the development process: Rapid speed development Gives a well-organized, reusable and maintainable code. The web apps runs on PHP frameworks are scalable. High level of security of your PHP site. MVC pattern ensures the separation of presentation and logic. Promote modern web development practices such as OOP. We are sharing down here a list of most popular and the best 2017 web development frameworks of PHP. Laravel Laravel is the most prominent and best PHP frameworks in comparison with the other frameworks. Although, it is relatively a new framework but it has become the most important PHP framework because of its fantastic features which are helpful for the rapid application development process. Laravel supports a wide range of databases. Laravel provides an immense ecosystem with an instant hosting and deployment platform. Laravel light-weight templating engine called “BLADE” helps in the repeated tasks such as: Authentication Sessions Caching Queuing RESTful Routing Latest Version: The top latest version of Laravel is Laravel 5.4 CodeIgniter CodeIgniter is a light-weight PHP framework with a very straightforward installation process and requires minimal configuration. The framework has some attractive features and functionalities and an ideal choice for PHP developers. This second best PHP framework can work on all shared and dedicated hosting platforms. The framework, CodeIgniter gives great freedom to PHP developers because it is not strictly based on MVC development pattern. Third party plugins can also be added in this framework for more complicated functionalities. The CodeIgniter framework has numerous components such as easy error handling, no PHP adaption struggle, and simple security and encryption steps. Latest Version: CodeIgniter 4 is the new upcoming and latest version of this Framework. Cake PHP CakePHP is another famous PHP framework. It offers fast and reliable development solutions. The latest version of CakePHP is 3.0, with enhanced session management, improved modularity and have ability to create more standalone libraries. It is considered the best framework of PHP as it provides high-level of security to the web apps with its built-in security features such as SQL injection prevention, XSS (cross-site scripting) prevention and CSRF(cross-site request forgery) protection. This framework of PHP has kept its popularity intact among the other PHP frameworks. Latest Version: The latest version of CakePHP is CakePHP 3.4 Symfony Among the fantastic frameworks of PHP, Symfony is one of them. It is adaptable, versatile and intense PHP framework for MVC application. The developer community of Symfony is very huge. PHP libraries of Symfony are reusable and can complete different tasks with it such as form creation, object configuration, routing, authentication, templating and much more. There’s a portfolio section available in the web application to get an insight of the finished projects of this framework. Latest Version: Symfony version 3.2.3 is the recommended version of this PHP Framework. Zend Zend framework is scalable, making it famous because of the web based training and accreditation. The framework is utilized by big business association. This framework of Zend is highly not recommended for smaller projects and an excellent one for complex ones, Zend is partnered with Google, IBM, Microsoft, and Adobe and possess many cool features such as cryptographic coding tools, easy-to-use drag and drop editor to support front-end technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript. Latest Version: The current and latest Framework of Zend is Zend Framework 3 which is PHP 7 optimized. Yii Framework Yii Framework is the highly popular framework of PHP for big scale website developments. The framework is very extensible and set fits on your requirements. The features offered by this framework includes the faster performance in comparison with other frameworks, integrated with Jquery & AJAX features. The framework consists a powerful class code generator called Gii which supports OOP concepts, rapid prototyping and provides a web-based interface to easily generate the code you desired. Latest Version: The top version of Yii framework is Yii 2 which is released on 1st Feb 2017. Slim Slim, a light-weight micro framework of PHP, suitable for small to medium PHP websites. Slim was created in an inspiration of Ruby microframework called “Sinatra” The framework is used for the development of RESTFul API’s and services. The good features of this framework include Client-side HTTP Caching, URL routing, session and cookie routing, supports flash messages across HTTP request. Latest Version: The latest version of the Slim framework is 4.0 Phalcon Phalcon PHP framework is fast in performance because it is written in C and C++ and can get the highest level of performance optimization with it. It’s a well-documented and easy to use framework. The standard features of this framework include Universal Auto Loader, Asset Management, Security, Translation and Caching. Phalcon decreases resource usages and boost up the execution speeds. Latest Version: The latest best version of Phalcon is 5.3 FuelPHP FuelPHP, a flexible, full-stack PHP framework supports not only the MVC pattern but also supports the evolved version HMVC (Hierarchical Model-View-Controller) on architecture level. The framework comes with detailed and comprehensive documentation. The framework is modular and extendable, taking care of all the security concerns with its features like input and URI filtering and output encoding. Latest Version: The new latest version of FuelPHP framework is 5.3.3 Conclusion: Though there are hundreds of framework available but these are some of the most popular, advanced, fastest and cost-effective PHP frameworks. The right way for a client is to leave the selection of PHP framework according to your project needs to the PHP custom design and development company or the PHP Developers. Developed by Corona Labs Inc. in mid-2009, Corona is a software development kit which lets software programmers build 2D mobile applications for iOS, Android, and Kindle, desktop applications for Windows and OS X, and connected TV applications for Apple TV, Fire TV, and Android. With the object of making the process of engine development more transparent, it’s a move that’s being planned for years; it also empowers the community to directly affect future growth and potential. As part of a succession of steps on a longer development journey, delegating Corona to the community is the unquestionable way to rapidly respond to market shifts and vicissitudes, ensuring Corona stays pertinent and appreciated to all mobile app developers. Corona SDK for cross-platform mobile game development is the perfect platform for developing games, but the mobile game development process is a tricky thing to do. Vlad Sherban, product manager for Corona Labs said that the evolution of Corona to the open-source model of development has been their lasting vision since Corona Labs was acquired by Appodeal in 2017. He said that this move is likely to bring transparency to the development process, enabling users to contribute features or bug fixes to make the project better for everyone. The open-source model will bring more discernibility and elasticity to the growth process by allowing visibility into precisely what the engine team is working on and where the project is going, and by underwriting appreciated new features that will help spearhead Corona to the next level. Other benefits for businesses include the likelihood to obtain a commercial license for source code and modify the engine for specific profitable projects. Corona is a cross-platform framework ideal for rapidly creating apps and cross-platform 2D game development. Corona Labs will continue to have a devoted team and setup to support our prosperous plugin ecology and infrastructure, as well as to keep up to date with the ever-changing supplies and updates coming from applications stores. Driven by the new open-source model and reinforced by the development of new features and bug fixes will make Corona more community-driven — but not without our help and supervision. Eventually, going open source will provide poise in the future of the engine and an opportunity to grow community involvement in engine development. Most parts of Corona’s code will be open-sourced barring some plugins, the Corona Marketplace, and the build infrastructure. This is not a final or thorough list as the team may open source even more as we move forward. Licenses With the object of open source game development, Corona will be dual-licensed under both commercial and open-source licenses. The open-source license is the GNU GPLv3 license, and commercial license will be accessible upon agreement with Corona Labs. This does not apply to daily builds and releases. Their license remains unchanged. You can download builds to freely build and distribute your apps as before. The new changes only apply to the source code of the engine which is now available. This is the preferred way to use Corona. It’s what most people will do. You can download the Corona source code under the GPLv3 license and build your games and apps, however, those games have to be distributed under the GPLv3 license, i.e you have to make your source available. Games and apps based on the open-source distribution of Corona have to be distributed using the same license (GPLv3). You can download the Corona source code, negotiate a commercial license agreement with Corona Labs, and build a version of Corona that has a custom feature. You can then distribute your games and apps without opening your own source. Which frameworks can be used to develop a cross-platform application? Xamarin, PhoneGap, Ionic, NativeScript, and React Native are some of the most suitable cross-platform mobile app development frameworks. Corona SDK Use Corona SDK has been widely used for a while, with most of the newer apps and games predicated on this SDK. So, the question now is: Is Corona SDK the best mobile game development platform? When apps are made locally, they turn out great but are really costly to yield on more than one platform. As such, this is where Corona SDK comes to your salvage. Corona for Android It’s no surprise that many people who want to learn to develop for Android want to start by making a game. And there’s no better way to develop a game by using Android technology. Which platform is best for game development? While there are many platforms for game development, such as Unity, AppGameKit, Fusion, and more, the best of the best platform by far is Corona SDK. Is Corona SDK free? Yes. The core Corona framework is completely free, including Corona Native which can be used to extend Corona with native languages (C/C++/Obj-C/Java). Which framework is best for mobile app development? Of late, mobile app development has gained a lot of traction, with a number of developers trying to cash in on this rewarding field. Nevertheless, the major problem that developers face across streams is the different programming languages and operating systems. And when it comes to evaluating the comparison between such topics there is no best ever. Pros Here are the major reasons why developers usually prefer Corona SDK for cross-platform mobile game development: Write Your Code Once With Corona SDK, you just need to write your code once, and there it runs on all stages. You might just need restrictive code here and there to make it platform precise. With native apps, the same effort goes in making apps on different platforms, growing the development time and cost. FPS (Frames Per Seconds) Corona is known to be ultra-fast with the least lag as compared to other SDKs in the market today. It could even regulate easily to all the screen determinations you require. The fast FPS is certainly advantageous. Usually, with SDKs like Phonegap and ImpactJS, the FPS is too sluggish, making mobile game development a lagging experience. Emulator The emulator is really speedy when you compare to your Android emulator. The emulator revives your project as you save a file and makes the development process much faster. No IDE This is the main point when it comes to Corona SDK. There is no devoted Corona SDK IDE. It has great plugins for any platform you want to use. It feels great to have all things in one place. Design Corona uses several images and music files. With just a line or two of basic coding, you could effortlessly show images or play music. You need a really good designer if you are working with Corona. Lua Corona SDK uses Lua, which is known to be quite easy to learn and use. Cons Like all SDKs, even Corona SDK has its list of cons. The commonest problem faced by Corona users is that it is quite costly. Another problem is that you do not have a way to integrate native plugins, so it might not be practicable to use Corona for all your applications. Furthermore, it is hard to test your apps developed on Corona on devices. You do not have the option to arrange it on to the device directly. You will have to amass, build, and then install your game on the device each time you want to test. Therefore, these are some of the main pros and cons of Corona SDK. Simply put, Corona is found to be comparatively easier and more widespread than all other SDKs owing to its features. Developers find it really easy to learn and use it, making it one of the most loved SDKs for game development. The debate on whether it is the best would not end anytime soon, there’s no doubt it's one of the best options available. Conclusion The gaming industry is one of the largest in the world. It offers hundreds of thousands of people globally and as of 2017, rakes in a revenue of over $100 billion yearly. That’s why a lot of developers and aficionados want to build their own games and rake in the dough. With so many mobile game development tools on the market, Corona SDK is the perfect framework for cross-platform mobile game development. There is no one magic tool that will solve all your problems, different mobile game development tools serve different purposes and audiences. Whenever it comes to web development, many developers want tips to improve the website. Web development in PHP is pretty easy for newbies. All you need is PHP tutorials for beginners and the easiest way to optimize PHP website. PHP is one of the most loved and widely used languages that developers loves to build their website from. The best part of PHP development is that developers can find Guide for PHP developers and best PHP tips and tricks on the official site of PHP. Another advantage of PHP is that as a PHP developer you can find good frameworks and CMSs to work on. Many people tend to ask, ‘how can I improve my PHP code?’ The answer to this lies in practice and being capable of build your own confidence in creating a project and releasing it. You can also learn PHP by building web applications This blog post is all about the best PHP tips and tricks for Web development in PHP so that you can develop your website in PHP without any hassle and you can enjoy your professional life. Develop with error reporting enabled Error reporting feature, an important feature in PHP website, is one of the best Useful PHP trick for Developers. The best thing to cope with errors is to set the system to display errors. To set the settings you have to alter the php.ini file when you develop your site. Include these two lines in the beginning. error_reporting ( E_ALL ) ; ini_set ( 'display_errors' , 1 ) ; The following code helps you to see both types of errors whether the fatal errors that produce the dreaded white screen as warnings and notices that may be bugs to fix. Prevents SQL injection Security holes are the biggest cause of the bad reputation of PHP but PHP tips for website development are here. There are many ways to avoid SQL injection but the simplest one escapes any variable that we will use in the database. The code should look like this: $query_result = mysql_query ( "SELECT * FROM WHERE Ex_table ex_field = \" " . mysql_real_escape_string( $ ex_field ) . " \ " " ) ; Use the _once() function with caution PHP developers prefer using include() or function require() to call other files, libraries or classes, but using the include_eleven() and require_eleven(), are the PHP tricks for web developer. Both the functions have the same functionality but the advantage is that it prevent the files, classes or loaded libraries to be loaded again which cause duplication and undesired states in the code. Learn to handle ternary operators The best PHP tips and trick for good performance is to use ternary operators as an alternative to simple IF constructions. For instance: $age = ( !empty ( $ _ GET [ 'age ] ) ? $ _ GET [ 'age' ] : 58 ) ; This would help your code to get lighter and can be nested without problems. Retire the MySQL driver This is 2017 and the technology that we are using is advanced now this is the time for PHP7. A high time to retire your MySQL database and start using PDO. A PHP extension that helps you to connect with different other managers databases. A very important feature of MySQL driver is MySQL Connector/Python that supports almost all features provided by MySQL version 5.7. Designed specifically to MySQL, MySQL Connector/Python lets you translate the parameter’s value between Python and MySQL data types. Obviously, PHP works other than MySQL too. As a PHP web developer, this tip is one of the best PHP tips and tricks for me for website development with PHP. The code to connect with databases is: try { $conn = new PDO ( "mysql: host = localhost; dbname = database ' , $ user , $ pass ) ; $conn -> setAttribute ( PDO :: ATTR_ERRMODE , PDO :: ERRMODE_EXCEPTION ) ; } Catch ( PDOException $e ) { Echo "ERROR:" . $e -> getMessage ( ) ; } Use single quotes rather than double Are you a speedy programmer who can type code fastly? Well here’s a trick for you! Just use single quote (") other than double (" "). Trust me! it saves you a lot of time and the performance of your server. Best PHP tips and tricks code! ha? Clean URLs quickly with .htaccess The file .htaccess - the best yet simple way to make the URLs more simpler for human eye as well as for SEO. A hidden file that serves a lot with Apache directives. The services that this file provides are performing redirection and clean URLs do not cease to be redirected to after all. One of the best tip and trick for PHP based application improvements. RewriteEngine On RewriteRule ^ ( [ a - zA - Z0 - 9 ] + ) $ index . Php? Page = $ 1 This code is the life saver for many PHP developers that can prevent horrible URLs and make it sleek and simple, phew! Know all the Problems of isset() One of the PHP tricks for web developer is to understand what isset() function do. Make sure that you know at what time isset() function returns false and on which time it answers true. This function returns True if the variable is not NULL. Yes you read it not NULL. Just like so, if NULL can be a valid value of the variable,We surely have a problem sire! $foo = null ; if ( isset( $ foo ) ) // returns false And the solution is: Use get_defined_vars( ); $foo = NULL ; $vars = get_defined_vars( ); if ( array_key_exists ( 'foo' , $ vars ) ) // returns True Use a switch instead of stringing If Statements The useful PHP trick for Developers- use Switch instead of crazy Ifs. Advantage? The code will execute faster thus performance is increased. The usage of Switch statements allows you to go beyond the use of if-else if-else chains. switch ($color ) { case 'white' : echo "The color is White" ; break ; case 'blue' : echo "The color is Blue" ; break ; case 'green' : echo "The color is Green" ; break ; case 'black' : echo "Color is black" ; break ; } Take up cURL The method to retrieve a file from another server is to use the powerful way cURL, instead of using file_get_contents() function which is easy to use but come on, it's like having death on your computer. The following code is the example of the use cURL: $c = curl_init ( ) ; curl_setopt ( $c , CURLOPT_URL , $URL ) ; curl_setopt ( $c , CURLOPT_TIMEOUT , 15 ) ; curl_setopt ( $c , CURLOPT_RETURNTRANSFER , true ) ; $content = curl_exec ( $c ) ; $status = curl_getinfo ( $c , CURLINFO_HTTP_CODE ) ; curl_close ( $c ) ; Password Encryption Often developers ask Tips to improve the website, well here is one, PHP is always on your side and it encrypts your passwords for you. I am talking about the PHP 5.5+ versions, Just store the passwords in your database as. $enc_pass = password_hash ( $submitted_pass , PASSWORD_DEFAULT ) ; To check if password is correct or not: if ( password_verify ( $submitted_pass , $stored_pass ) ) { // User successfully authenticated } Advanced PHP Tips to Improve Your Programming Typically used for web development, PHP is the server-side scripting language. Invented in 1994 by Rasmus Lerdorf, PHP has done a remarkable job in the technology-based world and made the whole work of web development extremely easy for developers. There’s little doubt that working knowledge of PHP is too important to sustain in today’s cut-throat technology sphere. Here are the 5 advanced PHP tips to learn PHP programming. I. Object-Oriented Programming (OOP) is the Rudimentary Requirement OOP is the basic requirement of PHP that every developer should know. PHP follows object-oriented programming and therefore items and programs link things together for developing a program. Using OOP approaches, you can skip the replication of code and can complete the code in a much simpler way. Objects are demarcated under the programs and then you can reclaim this purpose again and again in the whole programming. OOP is faster, easy to correct, and uses slighter server resources, less code and quicker loading process to evade long events. Going with OOP, you can make your coding style more effective and simpler. II. Intrinsic Functions of PHP are Extremely Usable PHP language is extremely easy to learn and adjustable for a developer to develop the best websites. Using the inbuilt advanced PHP techniques, you will get the concealed benefits which are very valuable throughout the coding process. If you are doing a custom PHP development or web development, the need for displays and functions is very significant. For example, if you want to count the numbers then you can use count() and like that PHP has a number of built-in functions that are very beneficial for making the coding procedure easy and quick. III. Keep the Database Secure The first thing prior to starting any PHP project is that you should use mysl_real_escape_string() for all the database. Doing this will help you keep all the strings safe from any kind of unwelcome threats that may have some malicious code. This should be your first step to protect your database. The other vital thing is that never use $_REQUEST – instead, go with POST or GET strings for submitting the data into the database query. IV. Always Use POST and Never GET A good programmer is well aware of the difference between these two. Get method displays the address in the URL and gives simpler ways for the hacker to totally hack your entire project. Going with POST, you can face a secure journey throughout your coding and development procedure. V. Make a Copy Before Going for CODE Before you explore the real platform, just stop for a few minutes and make a coarse draught of your whole coding. This will give you better comprehension and will clear your opinions for developing the website. Also, you will discover the main glitches that you will face in the future journey of the coding. Wrapping things Up One of the best programming language to develop websites is PHP, which is open-source. Although it is easy to use it's normal when it takes the time to learn but if you know all the advanced PHP tips and tricks for good performance and for Website development in PHP then you are a champ! Whatever it takes you to use PHP based frameworks and CMSs consider, use it over Core PHP, as it can give a better performance, a lightweight website and yes you can develop your website in PHP more faster. These were the tips and tricks for Guide for PHP developers. Do you like any of them? or know any tip better than these? Let us know in the comment section below. Also, PHP beginners are much appreciated to ask. ;) With the unveiling of the new AI-powered Google News a few days ago, Google has drawn support for the standout meta tag and the Editors’ Pick section. As part of the new Google News, support for Editors’ Picks feeds & the standout meta tag has ended, with more to share on other ways publishers can enhance discernibility in the near future. There is clearly no reason to continue to do so, as far as those publishers that use these features are concerned. It is also built into the Yoast SEO plugin, and it’s believed that Yoast will be eliminating those features as well. Launched in September 2011, the standout meta tag came as a way to allow news publishers to highlight articles that are believed to stand above and beyond the rest. Their use was confined to seven times in a seven-day period, so publishers learned to use them frugally. The Editors’ Pick also launched in 2011, in August, letting publishers who were comprised in this hand-curated system define which stories should be included in that list. This comes just a few months after Google also dropped support for the meta keywords new tag. Both of these features are not supported in the new version of Google News anymore. Ever visited the website of The Economist, Government of Bermuda, University of Minnesota? The similarity between all of them is that they are made of Drupal. An open source software that was created for CMS (Content Management System) framework. When it comes to developing a site using Drupal, it saves money because this framework is made of PHP. PHP is as open source script code; that means no licensing costs that is why it is the choice of many developers from many years. There are many advantages of Drupal web development that you can not ignore. Some of them are discussed in this article. So without further discussions let’s have a look at the opportunities the Drupal gives us. Drupal - Plenty of Advantages and opportunities Many experienced and inexperienced developers and programmers love to use this open source CMS. Many of the organizations and companies are using it, who may not have any technical skills that are must for website development, creation, and management. This cool platform is used all over from community web portals to personal websites as well, you can develop sites from eCommerce site to social networking sites, from newsletter to resource directories. The Drupal web development allows all type of organizations so that they can address all the requirements for a stronger and stronger online presence. Thousands of developers use Drupal web development to develop websites for their clients. It includes more than twenty-nine thousand modules and two thousand different themes. This platform is the most widely used platform that makes it the best web development platform with many of the advantages that you can’t ignore. Comparison between WordPress and Joomla As we talk about WordPress, beginners love to work on it and also is the best choice for small and mid-sized websites and blogs. Joomla CMS needs some technical knowledge of coding but is useful for eCommerce sites. But Drupal is the most powerful CMS among all yet is the hardest one. This platform fits for all types of websites and is the easiest for moderation. In a nutshell, we have a conclusion that Drupal Web development is the most popular than both WordPress and Joomla development. Therefore, there are many advantages of Drupal Web development that you can’t ignore. Drupal is among the platforms that is mostly used to create eCommerce websites just as Magento, Zen Cart, X-Cart and Joomla do. The only reason that many people love to use Drupal for eCommerce websites, is that it takes no time for an addition or modification of custom Drupal template in tailor-made eCommerce websites. In addition, just like Magento, developers can easily customize and develop different types of Drupal extensions in order to meet user’s requirements. Benefits of Drupal Web development that you can’t ignore! Drupal accounts 2% of all of the internet’s websites. That's pretty cool and huge amount of websites! Many of the developers loves to use this platform because of the below listed advantages of Drupal web development that you can’t ignore. Some of them are: Open Source: The whole software is open source that means free! A large number of themes are free, that means it helps many businesspersons to reduce cost on web development significantly. Customizable: Drupal is highly customizable as compared to other CMS which is an advantage of Drupal web development that you can’t ignore!. It is customizable in terms of all the feature it have, operations, layouts and designs. This makes the developer’s first choice of choosing this platform because it allow them to customize the layouts as per client’s requirements. Facilitates Rapid Deployment: After going live on the web, companies can change or customize the site after deployment according to feedbacks and business requirements, because Drupal truly uses “Web 2.0” style. Drupal enables the companies to deploy all the core features and functionalities rapidly. It’s another major advantage of Drupal web development that you can’t ignore for sure! Enterprise-class Software: Developers can easily and readily integrate it with other applications like SAP, phpBB, etc, all possible because Drupal is an enterprise-class CMS. It is enterprise-class CMS in terms of scalability (You can use it for huge or small organizations), this platform is really flexible, more reliable, easily manageable, no compromise on security and it have all resources that you need. API Support: All types of social sites custom modules can be made by using these well-documented API including Facebook, Twitter, Google Apps, Google Analytics, Youtube etc. It’s another major advantage of Drupal development that you can’t ignore for sure! SEO-Friendly: SEO the most important ingredient of online marketing strategies, Drupal help and enables companies to come forward with their SEO-Friendly websites. Drupal platform have a great flexibility of displaying the content that search engine likes and makes your content on top searches. That means more traffic to your site! Mobile Ready: Many people nowadays uses smart devices over other computational machines more. Thus this opens the doors for new marketing platform for companies. Drupal is mobile ready platform that means it provides the flexibility to the developers so that they can make the site useable by smartphone users and they can view the site same as a desktop user do . This feature is reliable for small businesses so that they can generate more and more leads. Having a Mobile-ready feature in a platform is the real advantage of Drupal web development that you can’t ignore. Conclusion At the end! Drupal is a perfect solution if companies and developers want to make websites with rich features, high-quality in a small amount of time and cost, a website that fulfills all the requirements of their clients. In a nutshell, companies can get the dynamic and innovative websites by using Drupal CMS to attract their users. Drupal 8 - The development of Drupal 8 started in March 2011. Since after its development, all the developers and the world become fond of this application framework. all of them has looked forward to all outcomes of this new development, all the features and API completion, clean-up, beta and release candidate (RC), all of them with baited breath. The Drupal 8.0.0 got published in November 2015, the sighs of reliefs turned into odd murmurs -- what is this all about?? There are many Drupal features that you should not ignore! Drupal 8 has taken all users, administrators, and developers to the greater height than before. After reading this article you will have get an idea about how you can boost your business with Drupal. Nowadays, developers are focusing on how to make the management system user-friendly, how to make new ways to create high data structures, build efficient APIs, how to make it multilingual capable and mobile accessible out of the box? Don't worry at all!! Drupal 8 brings all of them under one umbrella! Top Drupal 8 features that you Should not Ignore. The Drupal 8 backend that is powered by Symfony 2, the lighter and faster core, offers us with many more capabilities for modules and themes. Including these, the Drupal 8 migration curve got reduced as well. All these huge changes provokes one to switch to Drupal 8 because of the top Drupal 8 key features that you should not ignore: Brand New Theme Engine Twig- the brand new theme engine that Drupal 8 have included. This new theme engine is PHP-based, is flexible enough, fast and quicker and last but not the least is fully secure. It's a new and good news for the developers. Now they can develop more beautiful and more functional Drupal site just because of Twig. Its templates are written in a less complex syntax as compared to PHP template, while they are more secure than others. This is one of best Drupal feature and benefit that will help you to know why to choose Drupal. Mobile First From the Get-Go All Drupal's themes are mobile friendly that means they can fit on the mobile screen without any hitch. There is a 'Back to Side' button to go back to the front page. This new admin toolbar works well on all type of mobile devices. The second best answer as why to choose Drupal. More HTML5 Power Whenever it comes to write web markup, it's better to keep it up with HTML5. The Drupal 8 also uses this de facto standard, which gives you all of the access to input fields from e-mail to phone no. etc. One of Drupal best features that you should not ignore. Also, it enables the website to be more functionally and compatible with mobile and handheld. Multi Language Supported Drupal have some features that are out of the box like Multilingual ready making it the first choice of developers. The admin interface has the built-in translation. The community automatically facilitates the translation updates. Quick Edits It is another top Drupal best feature that you should not ignore. Drupal allows you to change something you need to - directly and quickly. This feature is a backport of the Drupal 8 in-place of editing for Fields. You can edit the text directly for quick fixes and additions from the end-end after logging in to Drupal. How cool! Built-in Web Services Now you can use Drupal 8 as a data source itself, and output content as JSON or XML. Also, there is a step that you can make by posting data back to Drupal 8 from the front end. Drupal 8 now came up with Hypertext Application Language (HAL) that makes exploitation of web services less painful. Loading Speed Drupal 8 now uses Cache that stores all of the entities and only loads JavaScript whenever needed. Therefore, whenever you view the page, Drupal do not reload again and again. The previously viewed content is quickly loaded from the cache thus increases the speed of Drupal website. Once configured and enabled, Cache is entirely automatic. JavaScript Automated Testing Drupal 8.1 now provides JavaScript automated testing, a cool new Drupal feature. Now Software testers have the abilities to test JS frontend automatically. This automated testing saves time for many of us making continuous integration that is much easier. Wrapping Things up For Drupal 8 best Features! Enough Drupal 8 Features to think about?? These were some top Drupal features that you should not ignore. These top features give us reasons to upgrade to Drupal 8. This platform is the collective work of over 3,000 contributors. Here in this blog, we will tell you how you can create friendly URL's with PHP & HTACCESS. Let's begin... One of the most helpful functionalities of the htaccess file is the capacity to alter URLs. You can use it to redirect one URL to another or use it to create a broad sweeping change to all URLs on your website. In this post, you are going to learn about generating Clean URLs in PHP with apache htaccess. Here I'll be using a straightforward content management system application developed in PHP & MySQL. From this article, you can read about the content management system. You can unquestionably create clean URLs in your projects after completing this article, it's simple to follow but you need to understand some basics about regular expressions. About the PHP CMS Project Demo Clean URL You can readily learn to create Clean URL’s in PHP with apache htaccess. In the content management system, I have developed four kinds of pages, they are index.php that this home page used to show all the articles and I also use index.php file to show category-based articles with a URL query string that looks like sitename.com/index.php?category=category-name, I’ll be altering this URL to clean URLs as sitename.com/category/category-name. And the next page is a single article page with a single.php and URL structure before clean URL is sitename.com/single.php?url=article-name after making it as clean URL is sitename.com/article-name. And you'll also learn to eliminate the .php extension from URLs. In the category pages, we have pagination, I'll demonstrate to you how we can convert them to clean URLs, pagination number after the category name. Original category page pagination looks like this sitename.com/index.php?category=category-name&page=2, We're going to create them as sitename.com/category/category-name/2 First of all, check whether or not mod_rewrite apache module is activated. You can test it by generating a new file with the phpinfo function. Open this php file in the browser after searching for mod_rewrite. You should see this as enabled. If the mod_rewrite module is enabled, you can proceed with the next steps. Steps to Use Mod_Rewrite: Create a file and save it as a.htaccess, then switch on the rewrite engine in the.htaccess file by adding RewriteEngine on Then after that Create Rules to match URL requests for clean URL’s. Example of htaccess Rule Here is the instance of htaccess rule. RewriteRule URL Pattern Original URL [flags] Every rule starts with Rewrite Rule followed by URL Pattern, which is the frequent expression. After that its Original URL, then flags. Key Points to Remember while working with htaccess and mod_rewrite Every new rule should be in a different row. Test them after creating rewrite rules. Also, check inner & links files linking (relative to site root). And apache takes care of loading the right files internally. Making Clean URL’s for Single Article Page I'm going to transform URL from sitename.com/single.php in a single article page? url = article-name to sitename.com/article-name. To do this, we need to change the pattern of the URL and the Orignal URL, and everything is the same. That's rules that start with RewriteRule and the flags. In URL Pattern, we will search for various phrases by using \w and in conjunction with +. Here is the full URL Pattern for Single Article Clean URL Pages – ^([-\w]+)$ Next Original URL, will we use the original single.php url? url= article-name. We will retrieve the URL patter with $1 instead of the article-name. And the final Original URL will look like single.php? url=$1 Next its same NC flags for case-insensitive and L for the end of the rule. The complete rule for Category URLs. RewriteRule ^([-\w]+)$ single.php?url=$1 [NC,L] Making Category URL’s as Clean URLs Category URLs are also the same as Single-Article URLs, except that using additional category slug in the category here in the URL category. Starting and ending the URL is the same. Here is the structure of the category URL before and after, that is from sitename.com/index.php?category=category-name to sitename.com/category/category-name URL pattern will be comparable to Single Article Page URL pattern, an additional category slug with word pattern will be introduced. Our complete URL model for category URLs is ^category/([-\w]+)/(\d+)$ The original URL is the same as the past rule, which is a single article URL. The pattern is obtained as $1. The final original category pages URL is category.php? Url=$1 Next, it’s same flags NC for case-insensitive and L for the end of the rule. The complete rule for URLs in categories. RewriteRule ^category/([-\w]+)/$ category.php?url=$1 [NC,L] Making Pagination as Clean URLs for Category Pages This looks like the category URL with pagination before and after. From sitename.com/index.php?category=category-name&page=2 To sitename.com/category/category-name/2 Add additional pattern group to the category rewrite rule URL pattern and also to the original URL to make pagination URLs as a clean URL. This pattern group is total numbers, so use \d with + for various numbers. And the final pattern of the URL will be (\d+). The complete paginated URL pattern is ^category/([-\w]+)/(\d+)$ Next is the original URL, here we should retrieve the second pattern that will be represented as $2 and the final original URL will look like category.php? url=$1&page=$2 Next its same NC flags for case-insensitive and L for the end of the rule. The complete rule for the Pagination URL category is: RewriteRule ^category/([-\w]+)/(\d+)$ category.php?url=$1&page=$2 [NC,L] You have to substitute the code above with this one. Fixing Category Clean URIs with Pagination Issue After adding Rewrite Rule pagination, it functions great if you access category pagination pages. You will get an error if you access category pages. This is because, whenever you use multiple pattern groups of URLs. In descending order, you should add multiple rewrite rules. That is, you must add Rewrite Rule to the top with multiple URL patterns, then next after the next one. This will fix the issues. Sum Up We explained in a very simplified way how to create friendly URLs with HTACCESS and PHP. Clean URLs are doubtlessly crucial for any web application. As search engines prefer tidy and clear URLs and rank them in higher positions. So being a developer, you ought to have this skill. If you have any problems, please let us know through the comment below. As it says: Prevention is better than Cure! The same goes here, safe your Magento eStore from Ransomware attacks. If you are a retailer of an online store, then the safety of your store should be your first concern. You have to save your Magento store from all kind of online ransom attacks and cyber-extortions because this kind of attacks have now become so familiar that your Magento store can go through the worst situations. What is Ransomware Attack?? The moment when the attacker has access to any website files, that are encrypted and are hidden somewhere on your server on the internet, is called ransomware attack. Now these attackers hold the website owners for ransom. Payment is in the form of Bitcoins, the digital currency which is latest and popular in exchange, to retrieve your store data. When the retailer pays them, they will send the decryption key to decrypt the data which they encrypt when they hack the site. Else if the details don’t pay the attackers often increases the price. Furthermore, in simple words, Ransomware are the attacks in which the precious data from your secret online server is kidnapped, and you are now asked to pay for ransom else you can lose all your data! How to tell if the site is compromised or not. The sample message is shown below when the data of your site is hacked or compromised for ransom. Pretty scary! isn’t it? To avoid such circumstances, the online retailers must save their files on servers in the first place. These are the attacks that are made on the profitable online venture, and thus, they have started to make the web stores very venerable. Are Magento stores under threat? As we all know about the popularity of Magento platform that many of the merchants use. According to a survey, many of the stores are making millions of dollars every day. That’s why this is the gold for the attackers. But there are some ways through which you can save your store from these attacks. By keeping your store and server up-to-date Many of the ransomware attacks exploit all the vulnerabilities in the software on the server. These vulnerabilities can either be in the framework of the eCommerce application itself or may be can be in the underlying software stack. But hey, if managed hosting provider hosts your store, they eventually will take care of these essential services and will make sure about the operating system is fully secured. But all you have to do is to apply some update to you e-Commerce application, and the extensions that you owned. If we talk about the reports that are recently spate against these attacks against Magento stores, it is found that a relatively old and long patched vulnerability is to blame. If you are a vivid user of Magento and you love this platform as your eCommerce store, we recommend you to follow Magento Security Center updates, about all the information regarding the timings when you have to apply patches to close security vulnerabilities. Have some Backups Ransom attackers strategy as mentioned earlier is to encrypt all your data. And once tbrutehe data is encrypted you can not decrypt without a decryption key; that’s what you needed. And when the data is encrypted you don’t have any access to your server. To have access to it, you have to pay the attackers. To save the situation, regularly backup your data to a third-party service or offsite location, that assumption collapses. If you have a good backup plan, it will make sure to handle all types of disasters including these ransomware attacks. Conclusion Well, after knowing about the ransomware, the idea behind it is very frightening for those who have their store on Magento platform. Moderation advice is not different than any other malware risk. For the best practice, follow eCommerce Security best practices and just make sure that you have a robust backup plan and all your eggs are not in one basket. Got any experience like this before? Share with us and tells others the way to get the situation under control. Make sure to comment in below. Like it? Share it!! A website is one of the most important assets for any business. Selecting the right web development company to work with is not a decision to be taken lightly. With so many companies out there, we can imagine it can be a daunting task for everyone to figure out which one to select. A website is an online face of any company. Working with the wrong team can result in some really costly mistakes. Not every company is a right fit for every client. A website design & development company should be an all-rounder from designing logos to online marketing of your website. The ideal company should be capable of transforming your idea into reality. Being an e-biz or a B2B development company, we are a team of dedicated and devoted professionals who produces quality work to build trust among our clients. Before thinking how to choose any web development company, you need to keep these few things in your mind while doing your search: Who Listens & Understands You Our team listens to your ideas and act accordingly to it or even provide valuable suggestions to grow your business. We think that the website design & development company should fully understand your needs and implement them in the best way. The company should be able to put your ideas into action. We would recommend you to work with a team who brings exciting ideas to you rather than just nodding their heads and produce an exact replica of your idea. Can They Do Marketing Of Your Brand? You do not only want an eye-catching website but it's better if you have an in-house marketing team which can put a word out for your company. A Website Development Company without a marketing team is like a car without an engine. Yeah, it may look cool but it is not going to take you anywhere. Choose a company who have a full team of developers, marketers, designers because that’s what you are paying for! One which can cater to the marketing and technical services according to your website needs. Track their Previous Record Before determining whether the website company is well-established or not, there are three important questions you should ask them first: 1: How large their team is? 2: How many clients they have served? 3: How long the company is in business? Always search for a company which provides you live portfolios of their previous work to the clients. Make sure you only work with the web agencies who have a successful track record so that you can be confident about your choice. Cost Doesn’t Matter, Quality Does If the website is going to work for your business, then you have to be willing to invest in it. The website is the most vital piece of your business or the company. The web design & development company should not be dirt cheap. An ideal agency should value their clients’ money and provides them with the best quality work that no other company can beat at. Don’t forget that a bad website will result in stagnant business. Experience In Both Local & Foreign Level is A Plus The company should have worked with both the national and on an international level. If the web company is limited to the local businesses only then there are high chances that your business won’t succeed enough. Work with a company which has worked on both levels and know all the advance features and functionalities which can be beneficial for your website. Are They Time Committed? How much time will they require to complete the website? This is the very first question that raises in the client's mind and they require a clear & satisfactory answer of it. When you sign a deal on a project with the web company, they listen to your needs and sketch out the whole plan as how much time will they require in completing the whole project. We are the people who live by the words and never let our clients down! What Does The package Include? The web firm should clarify the package they are providing to their clients as what they will be offering in the name of services. Building your website is not the only thing for the company, a proper agency should give other offers like maintenance, updating of the site, bug fixing and much more. It is the most important service that every website design & development company should offer. The service must include website content updates, landing page designs, website expansion with additional features like blogs or pages, SEO audits, and other essential facilities as well. The ideal company should not just build a website but also looks after it for your company or business. We work with our clients to develop user experience which delivers value to your audience. The website development company should have years of experience and research and are customized to help you achieve your marketing goals. Finding the right company is not that easy job so choose the company which thinks outside the box! Google will no longer support unverified and unpublished rules in the robots select protocol, effective September 1, the company said, meaning Google will no longer support robots.txt files with the noindex directive listed within the file. “In the interest of maintaining a healthy ecosystem and preparing for potential future open source releases, we’re retiring all code that handles unsupported and unpublished rules (such as noindex) on September 1, 2019. For those of you who relied on the noindex indexing directive in the robots.txt file, which controls crawling, there are a number of alternative options,” the company said. Google listed the following options, the ones you perhaps should have been using anyway: Noindex in robots meta tags: Supported both in the HTTP response headers and in HTML, the noindex directive is the most effective way to remove URLs from the index when crawling is allowed. 404 and 410 HTTP status codes: Both status codes mean that the page does not exist, which will drop such URLs from Google’s index once they’re crawled and processed. Password protection: Unless markup is used to indicate subscription or paywalled content, hiding a page behind a login will generally remove it from Google’s index. Disallow in robots.txt: Search engines can only index pages that they know about, so blocking the page from being crawled often means its content won’t be indexed. While the search engine may also index a URL based on links from other pages, without seeing the content itself, we aim to make such pages less visible in the future. Search Console Remove URL tool: The tool is a quick and easy method to remove a URL provisionally from Google’s search results. Google has been looking to change this for years and with regulating the protocol, it can now move forward. Google said it “analyzed the usage of robots.txt rules.” Google focuses on looking at unsupported implementations of the internet draft, such as crawl-delay, nofollow, and noindex. “Since these rules were never documented by Google, naturally, their usage in relation to Googlebot is very low,” Google said. “These mistakes hurt websites’ presence in Google’s search results in ways we don’t think webmasters intended.” If I was a merchant, choosing the best version to develop an eStore according to my business needs, would be a very big headache for me. I wonder if that would be for you or not! Not to mention this article is all here to help you choosing the best version to go with your business needs. Now, merchants love to build e-commerce store with Magento because of all the features that this platform has. The choice of Magento is done after the merchant compare Magento versions. Every platform of Magento have its own rich features whether it is Magento Community features or Magento Enterprise features. Each of the version has its own features according to your needs. At first, the "free version" might seem right but with a thorough study and comparing to the business needs "Premium version" might be the best solution. The points that can help you choose between Magento go vs community vs enterprise to build an ecommerce store with Magento are provided in this article but first let's have a look on the current solutions that Magento Support. Magento Go - If you are a merchant with the small inventory and a very restrictive budget with very basic needs than this version- Magento Go- is best for you and it acts like a Service (SaaS) product. Magento Community - Magento community features is best for the merchants who like to control the environment more as compared to Magento Go, and for those who are in mid-market and need to leverage extensions. Also, the merchant can customize the code to meet the expectations of their customer. Magento Enterprise - The target is the top end merchant who wants all the capabilities and the performance should be on top notch. These are the version that Magento supports, and about this post let's focus on the two of them and discuss everything about Magento community vs enterprise comparison. Features The below table shows the basic Magento community vs enterprise comparison points that will help you decide advantages of Magento Enterprise over advantages of Magento Community. These points are enough to let you decide which specifically is better for your business. Support Magento enterprise vs community features was discussed above. Now let us have a look at the levels of support for both of them by comparing Magento versions. The Magento inc. provides full support that will help you as an organization if you have purchased Magento Enterprise. This support helps you when you need any emergency help or when there is any falling out with the partner and Magento technical support, This is one of the advantages of Magento Enterprise and a top feature in Magento Enterprise. Performance Enhancements in Magneto Enterprise After comparing the Magento community features and Magento enterprise features, we are talking about the performance of both Magento Versions. Both versions performances change. So only talking about the best version and advantages of Magento Enterprise Version. Magento Enterprise 1.13 provides you the faster eStore with an 80% increase of speed. All because of the reindexing advantage that Magento Enterprise provides. Whenever a new product is added many processes takes place. In Magento community vs enterprise comparison, Magento Community, the free version takes almost 10 -20 minutes to complete process whereas Magento Enterprise the process is instantaneous in most of the cases. If you have a large business then Magento Enterprise is best for you to handle the large product catalogs. Magento enterprise pricing are not to high if you have business with many catalogs. Final Thoughts One of the thing that many merchants concern is the pricing, they think that instead of expensive Enterprise, it is more likely to use the Community version but end up with many problems as they lacked in planning according to the business need. Whereas at many times continuing with the Community version is the best option to have with Magento community features. Robust CMS function for standard pages and giving you more performance is one of the advantages of Magento Enterprise, to make the shopping experience faster for your customers. "Right Now" the expectations of customers that are proved in revealing studies in e-commerce when they shop online. Many of them just leave their carts if it takes too long to load the cart and they start looking their product somewhere else. Having so many advantages of Magento Enterprise does not mean that the Community version is of no use. You can build your online store with Magento Community version as well as Enterprise, but again costs far outweigh building a strong relationship with Magento. Also, the direct support that Magento Community persons provide to the Magento Enterprise users is not be compared to anything. Still, you are facing issues to choose the best? Or you are planning to go from Magento Community to Magento Enterprise? Don't hesitate to let me know in the comments. LinkedIn said it’s adding 3 new marketing objectives to Campaign Manager, with the aim of achieving advertising goals. Using Campaign Manager, marketers can now enhance their LinkedIn marketing campaigns for the following objectives: Brand awareness: Raise share-of-voice through top of funnel campaigns that charge by impressions. Website conversions: Enhance campaigns for precise website actions, like purchases or event registrations. Job applicants: Ads can now be created to drive job applications. In an announcement, the company says: “These new offerings are designed to continue to make it easier to improve key results and better align with your campaign objectives. Early results show it’s working, we’ve seen a 67% lift in customer satisfaction compared to our legacy Campaign Manager experience.” In addition to this update, LinkedIn is enhancing its click pricing to align with the selected goal. For example, if website visits are the objective, then marketers will only be charged for clicks that go to a landing page on their website. Drupal - one of the best content management system that has gained so much popularity worldwide just because of its functionalities that made it stand out from other. From education to business, finance to corporate, all of them can be made on Drupal, but none of them can be made without any developer. This platform is the best option among other CMSs, no doubt, but no platform is error free. Developers may make common mistakes in Drupal development. But not to worry, this article is all about the development tips for Drupal and the guide to avoid Drupal development mistakes. There are many common mistakes in Drupal development that newbies can make, for Drupal you need to have some hands-on training. There are many things developer should avoid during Drupal development and write clean code in Drupal 8. The best development practices in Drupal are mentioned here in this article. Use Of Irrelevant Architecture Of Content The first Drupal mistake to avoid and the first one on Drupal 8 development checklist is that many new Drupal developers use irrelevant content architecture. And all of you know that content is the most important part of every CMS. Never start website development without the proper understanding and analysis of requirements of the content, it will always cause you nothing more but failure. But don't you worry, we got you the solution, reuse standard content types and fields. Wrong Folder Structure And Installation The second one on the drupal 8 development checklist and the most common mistake in Drupal development is that new programmers do wrong folder structure and installation of themes and modules. Result? This is the Drupal mistake to avoid because it will cost you, when you upgrade or debug, ending up these things become highly complicated tasks to perform. Solution? Install all the modules and themes in right directories, not in the root directory. Excessive Coding The third mistake in the guide to avoid Drupal development mistakes is to avoid the use of excessive coding for developing modules. The solution is that always use customized code. Drupal have more than 30,000 modules that you can use on your website to make it work smoother. Always make use of these modules on your site to avoid excess use of code. Trust me your time and money is save! Not Taking Backup Of The Website The fourth thing that you should avoid during Drupal development, is not taking the backup of the site. The inexperienced developers don't understand how important is the backup and you know what, they avoid knowing the importance of it. So if you are a newbie in Drupal development then make sure to note in the Drupal 8 development checklist is to take backup whenever you start making any type of changes in your already developed site. Make sure that the previous saved data is backed up so that you can restore it from there whenever you need it. Not Speeding Up The Searching The fifth mistake from Drupal common mistakes is that young developers don't make use of Solr Search in development practices in Drupal. If you are still not using it, then start using Solr Search in your sites because it really helps your site to speed up and enhance search functionality of your Drupal site. Not Doing Spam Control The sixth Drupal common mistake is not controlling spam. The most important and first thing to do on your Drupal site. Don't allow the spam content and content on your site. Use proper control on spam. Make sure to add this point on top of the Drupal 8 development checklist. Not Making User-Friendly Back-End User Interface The back-end interface should be user-friendly, the most common and the most happening mistake that Drupal developers make that cost them to deal with complexity. Using Drupal make it as simple as possible. To avoid any kind of complexity, it is recommended to always design user-friendly back-end and write clean code in Drupal 8. Not Coding According To W3C Standards & Guidelines Another common mistake in Drupal development is not having standardized coding structure and format in the sites that are made by inexperienced developers. I suggest new and young developers one of the best development practices in Drupal to use W3C guidelines. Using this approach leads you and your code to be error-free, easy to read and code, make it understandable and well documented as well. Not Focusing SEO Techniques Not taking SEO techniques into consideration during Drupal website development, is one the biggest and common mistake in Drupal development which may cost you the most. Always use correct and precise keywords so that google and other search engines can rank you easily. Install Google Analytics and prepare proper meta, these are some development tips for Drupal and the best approach to optimize your Drupal website. Not Assigning Appropriate Roles And Permissions The last thing in Drupal 8 development checklist is that always assign appropriate roles as well as permissions to right users. Many newbies commit this mistake but don't worry you are at the best place. Fill the security gap and check everything with perfection so that it don't cost you the security of your Drupal website. Conclusion: These are the top Drupal mistakes that Drupal developers make. If you want to develop a site on Drupal and you are new, then add these Drupal mistakes to avoid and development tips for Drupal in your Drupal 8 development checklist. Always choose best development practices in Drupal so that your site performance can hit the sky and do not forget to write clean code in Drupal 8 that will helps you and will make easy for you to understand. Still, have any question or if something that you want to ask? Feel free to contact me. Like it? Share it! If you are a developer, then there is a good news for you. You have got several platforms to choose when designing, developing and creating your website. Among them, Drupal is one of the popular and best options. Drupal is powerful and a simple open-source CMS tool which has evolved into being a robust web development platform. In more than 200 countries, Drupal is used and is available in 182 languages. Famous brands websites like Ubuntu, Harvard, The Economist, and Sony Music & White House are powered on Drupal Platform. There are many advance features in Drupal and it has easy to use admin interface. The built-in generation tool makes it one of the most favorite CMS for website developers and owners. But wait, how can you be so sure that Drupal could be a right choice for your e-commerce solution? Well, here are some pros and cons of Drupal e-commerce website to consider. Read on: Pros of Drupal E-commerce Website: Build Complex Site Rapidly. Better Scalability Serve the API Start with Blank Slate Large Supportive Community. Some More Advantages of Drupal E-commerce Website: 1: Free and open source code. The real fact is, its CMS is completely free allowing it to compete with other similar products like Joomla and Wordpress. In addition, Drupal system code is open, which let the user rebuild it according to their needs. 2: Drupal was originally developed with the idea that only professional will be using it. It is the major advantages of this system and distinguishing it from its major competitors. 3: Plenty of room for creativity with the Drupal CMS. Drupal web developers can help creating resources, ignoring the differences between the complex and original designs. 4: Fast speed. Comparing it with other CMS, due to the built-in caching, Drupal has the best speed. 5: Rich source of modules. Since the source code is open, Drupal open source CMS got the ability to improve and extend the functionality by adding additional modules in it. 6: With the availability of built-in queries, forums, and multi-blogs, any project created from Drupal gets a good start. 7: Full Security. Other than the free competitors, Drupal security is very high. It has increased its protection more and cannot be broken down so easily. 8: Large professional online community. Although there are several fans of Joomla and Wordpress, but the online community of Drupal CMS has the largest number of professional programmers. The above-mentioned advantages and pros of Drupal CMS allow comfortable working with the structure and content of the site and quickly adapted possibilities of the CMS coding for the specific needs of the customer's website. Create your e-commerce site on Drupal to experience the full potential of a website. Cons of Drupal E-commerce Website: Difficult to Learn Trouble in Upgrading Can Consume many of the Resources Not a Good Platform for Custom Install Module Compatibility can be Bad Some More Disadvantages of Drupal E-commerce Website: 1: Difficulty in familiarization. The development and promotion of a Drupal e-commerce can be difficult for any newbie web developer. 2: Advanced Interface. The professional construction system of Drupal can make it difficult to master. Due to the complex interface, Drupal CMS is not very intuitive. 3: High System Requirements. Before switching to Drupal CMS, be prepare for paying an extra hosting fee and forget cheap fares. 4: Lack of High-Quality Design in the Free version. Most users of the system are engaged in self-development designs. This leads them to the shortage of quality topics for their site design. 5: Problems occurred while installation of updates and program modules. Drupal can be complicated for developers who had worked on simple CMS as the installation of updates and additional modules in Drupal, is made through FTP. A certain stiffness of Drupal is often an advantage but admittedly, can also be a disadvantage. The above-listed downsides of Drupal CMS can make the system inconvenient. Final Verdict. Drupal is no doubt a great choice for ecommerce development. However, due to the complexity and the above-mentioned pros and cons of Drupal, it may not be the best choice for everyone. In a nutshell, Drupal e-commerce solution allows the developers to make feature-rich, high-quality websites which will fulfill all the requirements of the clients. Probably the worst nightmare for an ecommerce business owner is when an order doesn’t arrive when it’s supposed to. Inevitably comes the angry phone calls and emails from a customer, reminding you that the product they ordered which was supposed to come in yesterday still hasn’t shown up and now everything is ruined. All hell then breaks loose. There are so many possibilities for complications when you have physical inventory constantly arriving, getting sorted, and leaving. And while having the best possible software will help convert leads and increase sales, how to handle supply chain management makes all the difference at your bottom line. It might be best to go it alone, or if your business has grown enough, it could be time to find a Third Party Logistics (3PL) provider to do the heavy lifting -- literally. Making your decision should be a thorough process -the final transfer of value between your business and your customers is nothing to take lightly! Here are ten do’s and don’ts to get you started. Do’s Do set up quantifiable ways to define fulfillment effectiveness The first thing you need to do is know how to measure success. You need to set up Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) which will help you evaluate the level of service you’re looking for. What percentage of goods are delivered on-time? How often are products shipped to the wrong address, or are incorrectly labeled? What percentage of your customer base can be reached within 2 business days from your fulfillment warehouse? These are just a few of the questions you should ask. By collecting data through time logs, barcode/RFID scans, and any other computerized metrics, you can establish KPIs to help you measure the effectiveness of your own company’s fulfillment efforts or any 3PL you might be considering. If you’re getting serious about outsourcing fulfillment to a third party, create a checklist of KPIs you expect to be given real-time data on. There’s absolutely no reason for them to refuse transparency, but if you get any answers to the contrary you should probably look elsewhere for your shipping needs. Do tour the warehousing facility for yourself Before you sign any papers, visit the warehouse where your inventory will be stored. Again, there’s no good reason to be refused entry; after all, this is where the lifeblood of your company is held. If you’re not a logistics guru, bring a neutral consultant or advisor along with you. Expect to see robots -- both low- and high-tech -- doing all sorts of jobs. At this point, every major logistics center employs AI technology to increase efficiencies and decrease costs; their software might not be proprietary but it will blow your mind when you see how they can locate a single unit in a massive warehouse with a simple search. Or at least, that’s the sort of environment you should hope to see! Beyond shipping and storing goods more efficiently, there is also the matter of security. Your fulfillment center should vet each one of its employees and provide adequate failsafes against theft, damage, power outages, and even natural disasters (more on this later). Find out how employees are compensated, and pay attention to their body language. If people seem happy at their jobs, they’re more likely to add to your bottom line by taking better care of your inventory. A good sign to fulfill the needs should be how you feel when you leave the center. Are you excited for the future of your company? Do you feel confident about leaving your inventory in their hands? Great! If not, keep shopping around. Do let your imagination go crazy (in a bad way) While it’s unlikely, sometimes the worst can happen. A major winter storm during the Christmas holiday period could easily delay time-sensitive shipments days, if not weeks. A power outage in the region where your fulfillment warehouse is could back things up by 24 hours or more. Having a Plan B is essential to keeping your business afloat; you no doubt having contingency plans in place for things like server crashes or a data breach, and ecommerce fulfillment is no different. There should be backup servers, wireless networks, power generators, replacement parts, and other elements vital to keeping service uninterrupted for all but the most catastrophic events. Hopefully you won’t have to worry about natural disasters or other major events disrupting service. In actuality, the most common “bad” thing that could happen is probably a return. What sort of hardware and software is employed by your fulfillment provider to make this process as smooth as possible? Can they handle 100 returns at a time? It’s good to know what their limits are. Do plan for the best -- how big can you get? Right now you might sell 100,000 widgets per year, which is great. But what if your branding catches fire and you start selling that amount per month? You wouldn’t work with a supplier who couldn’t keep up with demand; you certainly shouldn’t work with a 3PL that can’t keep up, either. Talk about scalability with fulfillment providers and get a breakdown on everything from storage capacity to discounted shipping. If you sign up with them, they’re the vital arm of your company’s success, so it’s only sensible to include them in your plans for expansion and eventual world domination (or whatever your goals are). Ask them about their SKU management strategies, their employee shifts, and their available storage space, to name a few conversation starters. If they have experience managing SKU changes, have multiple shifts including overnight, and have plenty of available space in their warehouse for you, they should be a good fit for your goals. Do an integration audit with their IT team and yours. There are so many variables to the back-end communication between your inventory management software and theirs. Schedule an initial test audit with your team and theirs (assuming they have an in-house IT team, which is a major plus) to run through everything from test sales to emergency scenarios. Knowing how your company will integrate your APIs with your fulfillment provider should give you confidence for the first orders that trickle in. And whoever is in charge on your side of the fulfillment chain will appreciate the chance to coordinate a challenging and necessary part of the process with his or her peers at your fulfillment partner. Don’ts Don’t choose a warehousing location because it’s close to your HQ This one makes sense when you think about it for a second; while it’s nice to be near your inventory, it’s nicer for your inventory to be closer to customers. When shopping around for a 3PL provider, consider where the bulk of the people/companies who buy your products are based. If the West Coast of the USA makes up 60% of your sales, it makes sense to base your inventory in Oakland or some other major city in California. Likewise, if the majority of your buyers are overseas, you shouldn’t choose a warehouse in Chicago. If you have a balance of customers spread out evenly, then it may benefit for you to choose multiple locations to maximize the cost of transportation. In that case, any 3PL that is limited to a single location probably won’t cut it. Don’t assume that FBA is right for you For some e-commerce businesses, Fulfillment by Amazon (FBA) is the golden ticket to success. Especially for high-margin products such as iPhone cases, deciding to store your inventory with Amazon so your product qualifies for Prime Shipping -- and priority in Amazon’s search algorithm -- is a no-brainer. But if you sell a specialized product that requires extensive kitting before it’s shipped, or if your products are especially fragile and need specialized packaging beyond a simple cardboard box and a few layers of bubblewrap, FBA isn’t going to be the best fit. There are so many factors to consider: storage prices for Amazon may be higher, they may not have the capacity to properly pack your product to your specifications, etc. It would be crazy not to check out FBA and see if their services and pricing match what you’re looking for. But don’t assume that it’s the best fulfillment provider for your business. No matter how juicy it seems, don’t sign a long-term contract They could be offering you two months free if you sign a long-term contract, or a cargo container full of cute puppies. It doesn’t matter. If you want to outsource your fulfillment to a company that insists on an annual or some other long-term contract, don’t. This isn’t because you should be wary of getting scammed by a 3PL; it’s about encouraging them to earn your business from the get-go. While you should be extremely confident in a company if you’re about to sign up for their service, considering how complicated fulfillment gets it makes sense to give yourself an easy exit. As they are effectively becoming an extension of your business, you should never be forced to accept sub-par service. Don’t be penny-wise, pound-foolish Here’s a great saying to remember: just because it’s a great price, doesn’t mean it’s a great deal. Like any service, if the prices seem much lower than what anyone else is offering, there must be a catch. There could be a ton of hidden additional fees that add up, making it more expensive than advertised. Maybe costs are less expensive because they aren’t paying for the latest product-tracking software, or they skimp on hiring qualified full-time employees and rely on cheaper but less-effective temp staff. Hopefully you can have an honest conversation with a fulfillment provider that offers aggressive pricing, and they can give you a straightforward explanation for their price structure. But if things don’t quite add up, ask yourself if your customers will get the best possible experience with this company. If you’re not sure, don’t feel bad about paying a little bit more to work with a more reassuring 3PL. Don’t be shy about starting with a trial period If everything seems to check out, you still have a ton of leverage. Ask a fulfillment provider if you can start on a trial period. If they can stand behind their service it will only help them in the long run to give you a trial before you sign a contract (even if it’s just month-to-month). By the end of the trial you should have a solid set of KPIs to ensure you are getting the best value moving forward. If you can, do a limited trial with multiple companies at the same time and compare them head-to-head. The time you sacrifice in the short term will pay off when you don’t have to worry about horrible customer experiences after making the right 3PL choice. Red Stag Fulfillment generated an extensive list of interview questions to ask the potential fulfillment companies. If you found this article helpful, let us know in the comment section below. Born of experimentation and innovation, trends are well-known changes that happen in all creative fields, which for the most part, push an industry to move forward. Trends are born to change and prosper by time. The year 2016, more like the last several years, featured an ongoing debate about web design industry. With the start of the New Year, it’s time to look at the future of the website designs. With the advancement in technology, users are expecting or would say demanding more and more from their online user experiences (UX). Keeping that in mind, web designers have to produce an interactive, personalized and relevant user experience. The traditional web design was to make the tech look good to its audience. But web design is more than that. Websites are no longer made just to look beautiful, rather they need to look into the experience of users and their stories. So the million dollar question is, what are the top hottest website trends in 2017 or how can someone make their company’s website unique from the last year. We are sharing here some fast emerging website design trends which will propel your website to the top in user experience. Let’s get started! Mobile-First Approach! In this era, we are looking for everything at our fingertips. I mean literally, we just have to scroll down and to find anything. To sum up the things, the mobile-first design has become the first approach to make your websites mobile friendly. The trend is not new to the last year and has been here for a few years now. Mobile phones are becoming the primary devices to browse the web and realizing this important trend, more companies, designers, and developers are trying to deliver content on a small screen effectively. The content should first designed to fit on small screens then one can work up towards the large-screened devices. Mobile phone and smartphones have smaller screens which limits the amount of content a user can easily view at once. Our prediction is, since mobile-first isn’t a new concept in 2016, we foresee more sites in the new year to deliver content to the smaller screen with a more thoughtful approach. Draw Attention with GIFS & Other Animations! Ignoring gifs and other animations can definitely hurt your user experiences (UX). GIFS are going mainstream. They’re everywhere. Using them in the right way can bring your website to life. GIFS & animations give a sophisticated touch to the website. Use them on a specific element to make them stand out. Or even add some depth to your website with parallax effect. You can even add a 3D effect that will tell your overall website story in a fascinating way. Don’t overuse them. GIFS are great to draw users’ attention. GIFS provides rich product experience, explains the workflow or more simply can provide a guide for your users on your website. Think Outside the Box with 3D Shapes! The animation is playing a key role in our digital interfaces. A few years back, [REDACTED_SECRET] was the big digital trend. The idea behind was to imitate real life objects on digital interfaces, but it didn’t feel modern enough. Then, the flat design took over the web with strong color blocks and has no reference to our actual world. Finally, Google, comes up with the idea of Material Design with a fresh perspective to the geometric shapes, adding shadows, motion and boldness to the geometric style. When Google flaps its wing, the entire web industry is shaken. And if they are using geometric shapes, we should too. With more visual tools, designers can build engaging and smile sparkling animations. So be ready to see more and more 3D geometric shapes in website backgrounds. Big, Bold, Flashy Typography Typography is another powerful visual medium. As device resolution are becoming sharper, brands are producing the type of typography to appeal to their users. Typography rules were very strict before but not anymore. It is expected to see an increase in over-sized and full-screen type which breaks the grid, beautiful, unique, hand-rendered typography and lots of dynamic text and image layering working in tandem with parallax scrolling. The trend is not stopping anytime. Brands are going bigger and more eye-catching, with dynamic colors, textures, and vibrant fonts to create an overall “wow” effect on your website. Minimalistic Web Design Basically, people now want de-cluttered, simple and visually explanatory websites. Minimalistic web design is taking the trend to a whole new level in 2017. Instead of the home page, users are now hit with a card. The “cards” are entry point which acts as a doorway to the information. Within a website, multiple cards can be used to visually suggests a topic and entice users to click. The website using cards are doing a great success like Netflix. The images displayed, are explaining more about the particular thing of your website and using less space. This design can also go for menus and navigation. Microinteractions Microinteractions are those tiny details which are a good way for users to interact with a website or a mobile app. Those tiny details typically include communicating feedback, manipulate a setting, prevent user error. A well-designed micro interaction has a powerful impact on users. Like adjusting the volume of a music player, turning off or on to any feature and much more. Every touch, pinch, scroll, tap, zoom and click is getting richer with more animations and interactive elements. Wrapping it up! Here’s a bonus tip, a cool and a fashionable tip is to customize your website map in a way that complements the design of your website. There are 100+ other trends going in the web industry and it’s hard to pinpoint every single one. But we believe that above are some of the more core ones. Not all these trends may be relevant to your company website, but it’s always beneficial to know what’s happening around you and how you can make your company’s website unique in order to develop and progress. One of the best languages for the web developers for developing dynamic websites is PHP. Developers love to use PHP because of the cool features that PHP provides the developers for best web application development. As a PHP programmer, your first concern should is to make a web application that is secure and avoid any inadvertently that allow security holes to creep into a Web application. To make the PHP website more secure, a PHP developer must understand the basic types of flaws any PHP applications tend to exhibit. To understand the blunders you must have the details about the common PHP programming mistakes that you might make and what are PHP security best practices. Don't worry this article is here to help you understand these mistake and some PHP security best practices to make your site supersonic secure. Configuring PHP For Security New PHP installations use recent PHP releases, therefore, have the more secure code. But make sure your PHP application is installed on a good server with updated PHP version, not on the php.ini file. To get through the problem of PHP configuration, the solution is to create a page that calls the phpinfo()- A function whose work is to list your php.ini variable and scan them for insecure settings. The main thing that you have to keep in mind that you never allow public access to this profile as there is no compromise on the security of your website. You have to keep in mind three setting for the configurations: 1: register_globals: The most important thing to keep in mind is to always disable them. If you are using a shared host and they don't allow you to disable it, then it's a high time to get a new host. 2: safe_mode: Enable this setting if your application opens the local files often. This setting is used to prevent the unauthorized access. 3: diable_functions: This has to be set in your php.ini file only. Disable it in your PHP installation. By doing so, it can prevent the harmful PHP code to be executed at run time. Data Handling Errors The error called Data handling errors occurs when the local system's file data is handled incorrectly and in an insecure manner. Never ever transmit your encrypted data with HTTP. Always use HTTPS that is more secure to transmit the secured data like credit card numbers and customer information. To transmit the sensitive data to the user's browser, always use SSL security or else a malicious eavesdropper on any router can easily catch the sensitive data and information out of the network. Whenever you update your application using FTP, an insecure protocol, there is always a risk of data mishandling. Use SFTP or SCP over FTP to transmit your sensitive files to the server. That is a PHP security best practice. Now, the most important tip is that you have to minimize the exposure to data handling flaws. This means minimizing the data and only keep the data that you use more often. The data that you don’t use for long time, just archive it! and store it offline. Unvalidated Input Errors Unvalidated input error - is the most common PHP vulnerability. Input refers to the input that users provide which should not be trusted. It can be a scam or can be malicious. Whatever user inputs, you have to validate to create a securing PHP web applications. Restrict the user's input, if some characters or symbols should not be the a part of user input, reject the input completely or just simply strip them out. Session ID Protection This the most important and noticeable PHP vulnerability that creates many problems with web development. Session ID contains the information of the user that is using the website and if the attacker could hijack the ID, all the info can be seen. To prevent to protect the information of the user, a unique Session ID is assigned to each user. Not only this you also have to keep track the risks to migrate them over the internet. Here is another tip to avoid PHP blunders: Always revalidate the user information after any sensitive actions like changing the password, even if you have validated the user with the Session ID. To assign the Session ID, use the session_regenerate_id function. Use SSL secure connection if your site has article information. Cross Site Scripting (XSS) Flaws One of the PHP vulnerability that must be treated with special concentration is Cross-site scripting or XSS, the subset of user validation. The blunder is that the malicious user embeds scripting commands — usually JavaScript- in the data that other user have to execute. The solution is that that you have to filter these type of tags like <script>. This is will work when the content is first submitted to get reviewed. Error Reporting Your PHP website has to be enough intelligent that it can easily report any error rather than showing it in the PHP web application. Make sure that the display_errors php.ini value is set to "0", if not then all the errors that encounter during runtime will be displayed to the user's browser. And any malicious user can easily take advantage of this errors and will take information about any entry point to the website. The solution to avoid is to set the error_log ini variable to "1" to catch the frequent log errors. Or make your own custom error handling functions. To get further information read the PHP manual pages on error handling and learn about the set_error_handler() function. SQL Injection Vulnerabilities Another class of input validation flaws that affects the PHP security. They affect the database query and through this flaw, a malicious user can easily gain an entry point. The solution is very simple, just escape all the dangerous characters that you see in the user-submitted values just like single quotes (‘).Check the user input using for the keywords "FROM", "LIKE", and "WHERE" in a case-insensitive fashion. Use addslashes() function in PHP language. $username = addslashes($_POST["username"]); $[password_REDACTED]($_POST["password"]); PS: It depends on your PHP configuration. Another magical feature that PHP provides is the magic_quotes_gpc php.ini variable and by setting it to Off means it will apply add slashes to all values submitted via GET, POST or cookies automatically. This feature really helps full for the newbies in PHP programming and unexperienced developers, but the experienced developers always switch this feature off, but, if the software is installed on shared servers, where you can not edit the php.ini file, and this feature is on, check the status of magic_quotes_gpc by the following code. if (get_magic_quotes_gpc()){ $_GET =array_m ap('stripslashes', $_GET); $_POST = array_map('stripslashes', $_POST); $_COOKIE = array_map('stripslashes', $_COOKIE); } Conclusion As a PHP developer and PHP programmer, you have lots of responsibilities while developing and securing PHP web applications, and guess what? we know all your pain. This article is here to help you out figuring out all the faults and flaws and to give you all the best and possible solutions to get you out of the situations. You can become a good PHP programmer by having good PHP training. The best and the most important thing is to understand how you can secure your website and to know all the tools and software to use. If you liked this article give it a like and follow us. If you have any question or any issue and you want to become a PHP champ , just comment us below. The term Blockchain has become a prevalent part of human vocabulary over the previous year. It initially started as the tech behind cryptocurrency transfers and exchanges but is now spreading into thousands of other sectors. It’s safe and reliable nature makes it a strong way for businesses to record financial transactions and provide a more equal playing field for buyers and sellers. But how does this equate into the fast-changing and addictive world of social media? Can blockchain's manipulative opportunities work for social media? How does blockchain work for social media? Think of the first thing you do in the morning when your alarm wakes you up. If you automatically reach your phone and scroll through your latest notifications, you're not alone. For most individuals, this is the go-to-morning activity. Our thumbs wander to Facebook or Instagram or Twitter icon before we even opened our eyes appropriately. And, fortunately, for those of us who’s first moments of the day are dictated by who said what to us where, most social media channels are free to use. Let me rephrase this: they are free to use in the monetary sense. We pay for them in other ways; with our data and, eventually, with our identities. That's where it all receives a little Black Mirror. What about Blockchain? Blockchain can be seen as an extremely secure digital ledger (think spreadsheet) that lives on a global computer network and allows peer-to-peer transactions to take place. This network enables a group of connected computers to keep a single ledger instead of getting the data owned by one manager. There are a variety of blockchain-based systems on the market today. Most frequently, these systems process data by placing it into groups called "blocks" and linking them in a chronological order to form what is called a "chain" that produces a blockchain. Blockchain utilizes mathematical functionalities and code to approve and check transactions before new data can be added to the ledger. Each piece of information must respond to a complicated mathematical problem generated by a cryptographic hash function (a mathematical algorithm) before it can be added. If the answer is right, the data becomes a component of the blockchain; if the answer is inaccurate, a consensus is reached before the data is recorded. How Blockchain Will Impact Social Media Blockchain technology continues to impact many industries and social media is no exception. Whether you are an online social media marketer or a company owner who uses social media to reach customers, it is essential that you understand that social media is currently undergoing a drastic change. Blockchain technology is presently disrupting multiple sectors, and social media is likely to encounter the ramifications of this disruption. Businesses using social media to create their brands, such as Twitter and Facebook, will soon understand that all the investment may have been for nothing. When blockchain technology changes, there will be an undeniable upheaval on the platforms used by consumers and businesses along with the means of networking. Trends and Effects Using Blockchain on Social Media If you want to prepare your business for future blockchain-enabled social network marketing, there are certain trends that you need to follow carefully. Here’s a little elaboration of the current trends. These trends show how blockchain is changing social media: An Upsurge in Verified Online Identities Rather than marketing their product in social media's 'black hole' and becoming susceptible to fraudulent pay per click or PPC ad impressions, business executives are attracted towards the blockchain technology and smart contracts which enables them to connect with customers with verified identities. Compelling Amalgamation of Cryptocurrencies and Blockchain Technology Blockchain technology and cryptocurrency are the future of the social media ecosystem. When a decentralized platform becomes mainstream, social media consumers have the option of platforms from which to network. The potential to earn small amounts of cryptocurrency for online operations may attract users to platforms where contributions to platform development are rewarded. For example, if you consider the amount of time you invest in current social media platforms, then imagine if each post you make will earn you a small amount of bitcoin. This kind of coded social media network is fascinating. Verification of Virtual Marketplace Online fraud is so prevalent that verification has become a need now, whether it is the identity verification or market place verification. Virtual marketplaces are areas that are used to grow specific business needs and to interact with like-minded companies or vendors. As blockchain technology becomes more prominent and mainstream, marketplace verification will improve the growth potential of a company. The ability to market verified vendors or businesses will make marketing simpler as they will understand what you are selling; thus, decreasing all marketing attempts while improving ROI time. Cryptocurrency and Blockchain Collectibles Leverage the Future of Social Media We are witnessing an increasing interest in the cryptocurrency collectible industry, with influencers raising millions of dollars for investor funding. Although for some people it is only a child's play. But the reality is that cryptocurrency collectible businesses are planning to introduce games on platforms such as Android or iOS. Once submarkets are constructed on top of the crypto-collectible game, the lure of this innovation will become more defined. Blockchain Technology Smartly Tackles Fake Content If we talk about today’s social media scenarios, it's simple for posts to get flooded with fake content from spambots. Blockchain technology with its smart contracts can affect the use of fake content. All the future social media networks will have the latest content distribution based on verified information and traceable data spread. To Conclude… We cannot predict with certainty that blockchain will outdo the current social system, we understand that its uses are vast and useful. If we arrive at a full blockchain-based social mechanism, we will still face difficulties. As consumers, however, we will have more control over our personal data, content, and access to accurate information. Finally 2017 is here, so what exactly your ecommerce growth plans are and what ecommerce trends do you need to stay on top of? Are you planning to expand the product categories, revamping or redesigning your website or going international? Whatever the plans are, keep in mind there are some of the biggest ecommerce trends we are going to expect in 2017. Let’s read on to find out some trendy ecommerce tricks for online merchants to build a user friendly ecommerce store. We are going to cover here everything from mobile payments to cutting edge analytics tools and more. The top 6 ecommerce trends in ecommerce business industry of 2017 are: No More Black Friday & Cyber Monday: The techies’ merchants are putting an end to the Black Friday and Cyber Monday by blending it online. The lines between both the big busy shopping days are getting blurry since both the shopping holidays are going online. Another important trick adapted by online retailers is to organize promotional shopping events in order to boost the growth in sales on other shopping days throughout the year. It is expected that in 2017, the divide between Black Friday and Cyber Monday v/s online events will be less important. Mobile Continues to Skyrocketing: Mobile phones are becoming more and more powerful and mobile responsive sites are getting better day by day. Smartphones have officially taken over desktop computers as the top source of traffic for any ecommerce site. Mobile wallets are getting more popular in Android users in comparison to iPhones users. For [REDACTED_SECRET] mobile commerce, here are some things which you need to know. Having a responsive website is not just enough. The user experience on the phone should be just as good as a shopping experience on a desktop computer. Another important thing to keep in mind is to make sure that your ecommerce website is integrated with mobile wallets. It is fairly easy add on process with many payment processors such as PayPal mobile wallet. Customer will Expect Faster Shipping: Since, we are living in the age of instant gratification, customer wants free shipping and fast delivery. The advantage of free shipping is, online shoppers add more items to their carts to qualify for free shipping and delivery and even willing to wait longer for the items to arrive at their homes. To stay competitive in the ecommerce industry, ecommerce store owners are looking for profitable ways to deliver free and super-fast shipping in order to compete with the big digital stores. There are some latest website trends in ecommerce industry regarding shipping and returns. First is to make sure you offer faster shipping and most importantly ensures that your return processes are easy to deal with. Customer Service is Important Customer service is always important. The customer engagement helps in creating an emotional attachments through which customers keep coming back. The customer service should be top-notch. Whatever channel your customer contacts on, make sure that the responses they get are fast. User generated Content (UGC) is also a way to engage customers with the ability to repurpose and create content with less time and effort. Social Selling Continues to Rise: Social selling is becoming the dominant e-commerce trend. With high adoption rates of smartphones, the e-commerce businesses are selling directly on social platforms. Online merchants use this functionality to create sales for each social platforms and run at different times. Latest e-commerce trends for social sharing includes buy buttons and social features on social platforms and influencer marketing. These are not the only ecommerce trends that will dominate in 2017, here are some more. Predictive Analysis: Better analysis will help you inform the customer’s next purchase. Predictive and prescriptive analysis lets you update marketing and advertising strategies based on the current data. It is also becoming one of the rising ecommerce trends for any average ecommerce business. Predictive data can be used to automate email marketing to the existing customers and keeping them engaged with the personalized offers. Improving analytics is also an important ecommerce trends to follow. Conclusion: These are some of our top predictions for any ecommerce business. But there’s always room for surprises so stay connected with us and subscribe to our blog to stay in the loop in 2017 and keep your ecommerce game on top. After the release of PHP 7, the PHP community is growing at a rapid pace. There are a lot of influencers that you need to follow in 2017. If you love PHP community then keep track of these influencers as what they are up to and what they love. By keeping yourself up-to-date about what these influencers are doing is the great and the best way of checking the current happenings in the community. These are some top PHP influencers you must follow in 2017 who have worked a lot in PHP community and have gained a lot of fame with their remarkable efforts done by them for the PHP community.. Here are some of the influencers that I found. Taylor Otwell The web developer and the creator of Laravel, Forge, Envoyer and more. The first personality in the list to follow up in 2017. He got the education from Arkansas Tech University. Then started working as a Systems Analyst in Data-Tronics Corp. from May 2008 – January 2012 (3 years 9 months) and now is working as a Software Engineer at UserScape. Sandy Smith A PHP developer from 15 years and loves to do Career Management and Career Planning . He lives in Washington DC. He loves to work for both in-house and in agencies. He had worked with hundred of organizations. He is a Senior Software Engineer, Innovations At Truth Initiative, CEO of php[architect] from Jan 2013 – Present (4 yrs 1 month) and Founding Partner & CEO Musketeers.me from Aug 2012 – Present and worked in other organizations as well. Kevin Bruce The third in the list is Kevin Bruce the sole Designer/Front End Developer working in the band of developers called musketeers.me. He has experience of over 20 years as a Web Designer and a Web Developer. He runs a local design meet-up and is a national speaker who loves addressing in tech conferences. The evangelist of clean design and clean code is now working as a Web Applications Developer at Yakabod, Inc. from Dec 2016 – Present. Fabien Potencier Fabien Potencier, the founder of Symfony Framework, has completed his studies from HEC School of Management in 1997 .He started his own company in France in June 1998 and named it Sensio, but later shifted the company to Canada in 2008 and then in the US. In 2005 he got the license of his framework, Symfony. Brandon Savage A software Developer with more than ten years experience. He worked on a project namely, Socorro, which is the Firefox’s crash collection and analysis system. Brandon is certified, private pilot. He is both a national and an international speaker and has spoken at many conferences like OSCON, PHP UK, ZendCon and user groups like DC PHP and Baltimore PHP. Check out Mastering Object Oriented PHP and Practical Design Patterns in PHP. Adam Culp Adam Culp- PHP Certified Engineer is the Senior Professional Services Consultant at Zend Technologies from Apr 2013 – Present. He is a public speaker and a trainer and is the organizer of SoFloPHP and SunshinePHP Developer Conference. Derick Rethans He is a mapping enthusiast, a PHP internals expert and author of Xdebug, php|architect's Guide to Date and Time Programming and an OpenStreetMap and co-author of PHP 5 Power Programming. He is the PHP Engineer/Evangelist at MongoDB and worked on the PHP and HHVM drivers for MongoDB. He frequently gives lectures at conferences, In his spare time, he likes to travel, hike, ski and practise photography. Sebastian Bergmann He is the co-founder of thePHP.cc Information Technology and Services. His test framework PHPUnit is a de-facto standard. He is Co-Founder and Managing Director at BBP Consulting & Publishing GmbH from Jul 2015 – Present in Hamburg, Germany. He shares his experience and knowledge through his widely-read books and articles. Sebastian love to hack on Open Source Software and loves to take photographs when he is free. Eli White Eli White loves to write code in PHP, and also an author at eliw.com and a speaker. He does conferences for a living. He is a vivid gamer , loves to play Xbox. And in free time he loves to do Medieval Reenactment in the SCA. He loves to do archery, armored combat, brewing, and woodworking. Elizabeth Barron She loves to work in tech. She writes sci-fi novels , loves to take photos and runs an Etsy shop. She was a PHP Community Manager at Engine Yard from Oct 2011 – Nov 2012. And now works as a Patchwork Community Manager at GitHub from Dec 2012 – Present. Michelangelo van Dam A professional PHP consultant and Zend Framework expert who also works for the government and larger expertises. He is the president of PHPBenelux, which is a PHP group running in Belgium Netherlands and Luxembourg. He is a speaker and speaks on several PHP conferences all around the world. He is the CEO of In2IT from Jan 2011 – Present, Co-Founder of PHP Europe, Member of the board at PHPBenelux, Coach at CoderDojo Belgium and Secretary at Dutch Web Alliance. Rafael Dohms Rafael Dohms, a Web developer and an experienced in PHP development. He is a PHP Evangelist and an author at doh.ms, public speaker, and contributor. He founded 3 active User Groups during his experience and an active member of the community. In his spare time, he helps to manage the Amsterdam PHP User Group, amongst other projects. He is also the Lead Backend Engineer at Usabilla from Jul 2016 – Present. Matthew Weier O'Phinney Matthew is the Project Lead of Zend Framework at Zend Technologies from Apr 2009 – Present. He is a Zend Certified Engineer and is an active member of the Zend Education Advisory Board. The activities of this group is to authorize the Zend Certification Exam. He loves to write blogs on PHP-related topics and presents tutorials on PHP development. Elizabeth Marie Smith She is an open source advocate and loves to work as a volunteer in many open source projects. She is a public speaker and spoken at many conferences. The mother of four is a mentor for new programmers . She works as a Contributor for PHP from Oct 2006 - present. Cal Evans Cal has worked with PHP and MySQL on Linux OS and windows for past 10 years. Cal is married to Kathy and is the father of two. He enjoys and loves to build and manage development teams, using highly imitated management style which he calls “Management by Wandering Around”. Cal loves to blog at calevans.com and also he is the founder and host of Nomad PHP. He has more than 20 years of working experience. He is also the CEO of E.I.C.C inc , founded Jan 1997. Chris Cornutt Chris Cornutt is an active member of PHP community who loves to speak and attend conferences all around the US. He is the author of two sites PHP Developer.org and Joind.in. He organized Dallas-based Lone Star PHP Conference. He have more than 17 years experience and is currently the Webmaster for PHP Developer.org since Aug 1999 – Present, Senior Editor at Websec.io since Aug 2012 – Present and Application Security Engineer at Pardot since Feb 2015 – Present. Keith Casey He is currently working on the platform team at Okta. He loves to play with APIs, their identities, and authentications. His first goal is to give good technology in hands of good people so that they can do good things. In spare time, he helps to build the Austin tech community. He writes blogs at caseysoftware.com and is fond of monkeys. Also, he is the co-author of book “A Practical Approach to API Design” from Leanpub. Davey Shafik Davey has 12 years of experience in Web Development. He is the Author of php[architect]'s Zend PHP 5 Certification Guide Sitepoint's PHP Anthology: 101 Tips, Tricks, and Hacks. Also, he wrote Cutting Edge Code, as well as numerous magazine articles. He is a public speaker and attends many conferences around the world. Davey is the Founding Contributor of Zend Framework, and he is the long-time PEAR contributor. A core feature of PHP 5.3 named PHAR was originally written by Davey Shafik. Chris Hartjes Chris is a PHP champion and is developing web applications of every sizes and shapes since 1998. He has more than 20 years experience and right now he currently work as a Senior QA Engineer for Mozilla and a night job to build his own info-product empire through grumpy-learning.com. He is the co-organizer of the True North PHP conference. Lorna Mitchell Lorna is the Developer Advocate for IBM Cloud Data Services .She works with the open source database technologies. Lorna is the author of "PHP Web Services" and "PHP Master" also she is a speaker and writer of a number of outlets. Conclusion: These are some PHP most influential personalities whom you must follow in 2017 so that you can keep yourself up to date about the latest updates on PHP community. Following them will help you to polish your skills in PHP. Do you think we missed someone? Share your thoughts with us and spread the love. So you have decided to create an eStore on Magento? The first thing you need to think for it, is your hosting provider. If you are familiar with the technology of cloud then you must know about some of the key advantages of it. But when it comes to your store and giving the people the ease of use then you have to choose the best cloud hosting provider to get the best result because each visit and every second is precious to count. So it is proved that a good and stable hosting is an important thing while setting up the e-store because a trusted Cloud hosting effects directly on the Magento store, all the functioning and all the managements depends on it. So in this article, I am here to help you out in this and i will tell you about the key points that will explain you why you should choose cloud hosting for your Magento store and what are the advantages if you choose Cloud hosting for your Magento store. There are some of them mentioned below. Increased Scalability: The first thing that i am going to discuss is the scalability means how “Elastic” is the service? Will the business grow with it? Will it manage the data according to the growth? These are some questions that almost covers this heading. Many of the merchants have large stores with heavy traffic on various events like new product launching or on any event that fulfills the urgency of short-term demand requires to be managed. But if you use cloud service instead of any hardware, during the promotional event you can just upgrade the servers and when the event is out you can downgrade it, that is the big advantage but it is not possible if you use any hardware. Increased Security with Fewer Risks: The most important thing is security and less risk issues. The security solutions of a cloud service is higher than any other hosting servers. You don’t want your data to be leaked that is a big concern before choosing the hosting for the Magento store. So cloud hosting is the best possible and available solution for Magento store with increased security. To see if the company is following all up to date security standards just ask them about their security policy. As far as the security is increased, one also have concerns about the risks of the data loss. Well cloud hosting provide you the backups which will make sure that your data will not get loss and will get restore. The data is stored in different remote locations so people are more relaxed about the loss of their data. Cache Management and Increased Speed If your store is not speeded enough then your customer will get annoyed and will not enjoy their visit or purchase anything from your store. So cloud hosting for your store has solved these issues. As it gives the cache management from the server side and helps your store to run faster with higher and increased speed by providing you Redis, Memcached, Varnish. Make sure to configure them on server side. Cheap pricing with Cost saving Cost is most important and primary thing for moving the Magento Store to the cloud. Purchasing a hardware and a bandwidth will become costly whether you have made and deployed your store cheaply or not , A cloud based company will allow you to save 80% of the costs associated with the normal and traditional ecommerce rollout. Manageable The most important thing is that how easy the server is to manage as the servers of the hardware are more complex to be managed but if we talk about cloud hosting they are more easy to get managed due to web-based console. If a cloud hosting is more automated than the management can be done with greater efficiency without letting you compromise on control. Reliable and Recoverable Many of the organization do not take care of DR (Disaster Recovery) for their applications. If you would talk about the hardware hosting, there are less chances of recovering of data but cloud hosting is more reliable and keeps backup of the data and can be recovered whenever needed. To make the backup of the data in cloud you have to clone the virtual machine by doing so the speed is also increased for up to 10x and thus! Saves the time. Latest PHP version Cloud companies need to update them selves to support the latest technologies. Magento runs on PHP so you have to make sure that the cloud hosting must provide you the latest version of PHP. Conclusion We have viewed advantages that a cloud hosting provides that will surely clear you that why you should choose Cloud Hosting for your Magento Store.. A cloud hosting will make your store run faster and smoother and let your customers attract and make their experience worthy. The cloud hosting will surely automate most of the things and will increase the sales. So, Get Started from Today!! Reading this article will clarify your concerned points but still if you are confused to choose a hosting company or which hosting provider you should choose then let me know in the comment below. Share! Like! Subscribe! The people who love doing programming loves to learn more and more languages. As the use of the internet is increasing, programmers like to develop more online applications. There are many other web development languages that developers choose like ASP, JPS, Perl, CGI, and PHP. PHP programming language is the most widely used language among other web programming languages. In this era, having knowledge about PHP scripting language is the most demanding skill for developers. PHP and ASPX are the most commonly and widely used scripting language and there is a huge debate about the popularity of PHP. There are some points that will guide you Why You Should Choose PHP Programming Language For Development Website and these are some points will clear what exactly PHP language is. Simple & Easily to Learn: One of the easiest languages for building websites is PHP scripting language, which allows developers to quickly grasp on web development. PHP is very similar to C and Java therefore if a developer knows how to write code in C and Java, they can quickly learn PHP scripting language too. PHP with Supports: You can find full support whenever you get stuck with any problem or error while writing in PHP scripting language. You can easily search how to learn PHP language because PHP is most widely used language all around the world. You can easily find documentation online on PHP for free because it is open source and free. That is why it is one of the reasons that PHP is the best programming language for website development. PHP is the scripting language with the largest user base. Speed: It is much faster than any other scripting language because it does not require a lot of system's resources. Even running with other software without getting slow and making other processes slow. A website made on PHP programming language is much easy to get hosted and more supportive. No limits: PHP provides you more freedom then ASPX as it is open source and you can find any text editor easily and free like Notepad and more advanced editors with more functionalities like Notebook++, jEdit, Emacs, and Bluefish. As far as ASPX web programming language is the concern, you are only limited to Microsoft Visual Studio. Ain't no one like restrictions, especially when it's web development. Not only text editors, you can run PHP on any platform like Linux, Mac OSX, Windows, and UNIX very easily. Since, Another freedom for developers. Easy Maintenance: Every developer wants to develop applications using web programming languages that are more easy to find and fix any error or fail. So, PHP with each request it cleans up and then starts over. Free and OpenSource: Free! Free! PHP is Free! there is not any kind of pricing using PHP programming language nor with its documentation nor with scripting language itself. And now it is more clear that best programming language for website development is PHP. As compared to other scripting languages like JPS, ASP, or other scripting languages they require paid hosting but with PHP you don't have to buy any kind of licenses, and there are no restrictions or any kind of fees is involved. PHP scripting language is 100% free and anyone can use it to develop websites. Easy Integration: Around 30% of all the web is covered by PHP. PHP can be easily integrated with other systems like MongoDB, Memcache, and Pusher. Almost every field and every industry uses PHP for their application. All of them from private to government corporations from small to wide ranged businesses, that is why many organizations and corporates thinks that best programming language for website development is, PHP scripting language. Frameworks: PHP community is very vast and so large, the proof is the number of PHP frameworks available. The popular frameworks that are made on PHP are Aiki, Symfony, Zend, Silex, and Slim. You can find any type of helping hand using PHP frameworks. This is another advantage of using PHP scripting language. Scalability: Scalability- the feature that is the ditto of gold, the most important thing whether talking about databases or hosting or even programming. PHP scripting language provides you scalability and lets you increase the size of your cluster. You can add more servers as your project grow and grow. Object Oriented Language: OOP, is the concept that gives you all advantages nowadays. From reducing the line of codes to the reuse of classes, all are the features that every developer wants to use while developing the application. PHP provides you this advantage of reusing other language classes that are written in either Java or Windows COM objects, you can call them. Creating custom classes is the main advantage for PHP developers. A custom class is a class that other classes can borrow so, it extends the capabilities of PHP even more. PHP is Everywhere There are many reasons to understand and enjoy PHP, possibly the most powerful and valid of which is that it is used and run everywhere. And because it works everywhere and is simple to get started with, a lot of popular software is written in PHP. WordPress is the instance that is both the biggest and most familiar, but tools like Joomla, Drupal, Magento, MediaWiki and more are all running PHP on the server. And there are more PHP application frameworks than you can also shake a stick at Symfony, Zend, Laravel, Aura, CakePHP, Yii, and even the renowned CodeIgnitor. You can certainly make a list of web frameworks of some length for about any other language. And you might even be able to collect a numerically competitive list for the commonly used web languages such as Python, Ruby, or Node/JavaScript. But the sheer volume of PHP running sites is immense. WordPress proudly boasts over 30 percent of the internet's power. PHP Programming Benefits for Business PHP programming language is an impressive choice for fast prototyping and development of both static and dynamic websites. Startup businesses, advertising agencies, and media agencies, as well as miniscule software organizations, are the most popular sectors where PHP programming is used. Why Businesses Still Favor PHP Web Programming Minimal Development Cost: PHP is open source (distributed under the license of the GPL). It allows fairly fast building of prototypes and ready websites. A massive code community works with PHP, offering assistance and lots of useful and freely accessible documentation, PHP coding rules, samples, and examples, as well as PHP scripts and programs, sharing their expertise. Rapid Development of Agile Web Apps Using PHP frameworks makes it possible to build web applications faster. They also facilitate scalability and maintenance of applications, allowing your app to evolve. Empowers Your Business Web A PHP-based company website, small or large, can be readily developed in terms of restricted time frame and budget. Advanced PHP programming includes creating CRM alternatives, eCommerce websites, database-driven websites, etc. PHP is extremely helpful for constructing user-friendly websites and attracting quality visitors to your website, thus improving your ROI. Cross-Platform Compatibility PHP is compatible with key operating systems such as Windows, Linux, Solaris, Mac OSX, etc. and continues to support all major servers (Apache, IIS, iPlanet, etc.). Expansion of Website Functionalities Thanks to the plenty of extensions and libraries available freely on the internet, your website functionality can be simply expanded. Custom extensions can also be easily added to the PHP source code. Conclusion This article has given you the brief idea about what is PHP language and why it is used for. The above mentioned are some advantages and benefits that PHP scripting language possess as compared to other languages, hence best programming language for website development is PHP programming language. PHP is loved by many programmers and developers out there because it helps all type of organizations to extend their creativity to the next level which is projecting absolute revolution. Why you prefer PHP to use over other languages? Share your thoughts with us. Magento is a powerful and stable e-commerce platform among all the e-commerce platform. Magento 2 is out. You may be asking yourself whether you should upgrade your ecommerce website to Magento 2 or not. Upgrading your Magento store to Magento 2 will bring amazing SEO features and provides an ease to the buyers and the sellers for online shopping. Magento 2.x is SEO friendly. Intuitive admin panel, high stability, great performance, better compatibility and high scalability, these are features which differentiate Magento 2 from Magento 1. Magento 2.x comes with a variety of SEO features that can optimize your Magento or e-commerce site like Meta tags, page titles, URLs, ALT tags, H1 headings. About Magento 1.x: Magento is a very flexible platform. The beauty of Magento 1 platform is that users can create Magento e-commerce stores with a variety of functions using built-in extensions. But unfortunately, flexibility doesn’t make Magento 1 platform, the most user-friendly or a high performing platform. Performance optimization, mobile responsiveness, admin capabilities, these are some common needs of any e-commerce store which is why to address these issues, the Magento team comes up with the upgraded platform like Magento 2.x. Benefits of Magento 2: Magento 2.x got the features which make it the best platform in comparison with others. Even it can compete with other ecommerce platforms like Shopify and WooCommerce. Faster Performance: Comparing Magento 1 to Magento 2? Well, your Magento 2.x website will run an average of 20% faster with the increase of more sales and Search Engine Optimization. It is because Magento 2 has an extension called “Varnish Cache” which speeds up the load time of your page on both enterprise and community editions. Varnish loads the page in less than a second rather than waiting for it to render. Do remember slow page loads time results in lower conversion rates, Google ranking, and higher bounce rate. This is the first most important advantage for Magento store to migrate it to the Magento 2 platform. User-Friendly and Easy Checkout: Magento 2.x checkout process is more streamlined, making the whole checkout process quicker and easier. The Checkout in Magento 2 is highly customizable and requires fewer steps for customer information. The second most important feature of Magento 2.x is less abandoned carts and increased conversions. Another feature which encourages the online customers to revisit your e-commerce site is, at checkout, a default guest checkout screen will appear to enter the email address. If it matches with any of the existing customers then they will be provided with an option to check out faster with their saved information. A guest visitor on your website can create an account in one click from the order Thank You page. Key Integrations: Magento 2.x integrates a lot of popular extension for the better functionality of any Magento ecommerce store. These includes the payment gateways like Paypal and Braintree, making a lot more easy for Magneto 2 developers to integrate any of the payment platforms on their Magento store. The benefit of Magento 2 is, it is also integrated with Worldpay and Cybersource to increase the payment security. New Admin Interface: A better new interface in Magento 2 will reduce the time managing the online store. In Magento 2, admin can customize the admin panel for important business information to be accessed quickly. It will result in personalized admin panel for each user to increase the productivity when managing products, order and customer data. You can import products 4x faster in the upgraded version of Magento. The admin interface in Magento 2 includes drag and drop layout editing that means you do not extensive coding to modify your Magento store's online appearance. Mobile Responsive: Magento 2 is more mobile friendly. Mobile responsiveness improves sales as customers prefer shopping online from their smartphones. Keeping it in mind, Magento team made mobile responsiveness a key feature to introduce in the core Magento 2 platform. Magento 2 comes with responsive, SEO friendly designed themes, integrated video, and easier checkout, improving the look and function of your Magento stores on small screen devices, thus, increase mobile sale. Bonus Benefit: The additional benefit of Magento 2, is its admin panel is also touch screen friendly, helping you manage the store on the go. But…..Change is not easy to Adapt! Magento 2 has not become popular much. But customers are steadily moving towards this new platform. This is because several factors are contributing to this like Magento 1 users do not want to revamp or rebuild their existing Magento site, they are comfortable and happy with the Magento 1 and the last factor Magento 2 extensions are not enough. Time to Upgrade the Magento Version So, now you know the benefits and advantages of upgrading from Magento 1 to Magento 2 It’s high time to start planning the upgrade timeline by documenting the business needs, requirements and goals for Magento 2. Final Thoughts For all Magento store owners, it’s the time to give your customers the benefits this year with the Magento 2 new features and beautifully coded extension upgrades. Type the keywords “famous website designers” into any search engines and you might be overwhelmed with all the choices. You will see probably millions of results. Within these millions of results, there are some superstars, superheroes, and famous designers. The top of the top kind. The leaders of the pack. But who actually they are? This article is going to tell you some famous website designers companies. But wait! Before sharing with you the list. I would like to tell you how the designers got in the first place of this list.The website designers displayed on the first page of any search engines are not the only famous ones. There are some others as well hiding in the back pages. After selecting the top famous portfolios, check their Alexa ranking. But why Alexa? Does it matter? Well, let me explain you, Alexa ranking is an indication of how popular the site is! It also helps to narrow it down. The next thing to look at the selected portfolios of famous website designers is their own website! It should intrigue you, load fast and sparkle on the screen. If their own site doesn't impress you then you don’t need to go any further. It should give you the information you want and should work well. It must give you a good hint of the kind of work they do. Just simply choose the cake with the icing! The next and the main important thing is you need to check their own portfolio and the client's list. Everyone looks for the quality, not the quantity. One good sample is far better than several bad samples. If the website designers are really good at something, then they must have an impressive list of clients. The clients should be the one whose names are recognizable. It would impress the big names in the industry as well. The second last thing to look at is their teams. Check the skills of the team they utilize and see how many projects they can handle at once. A team can produce an impressive work but they would be limited in how many projects they can handle at one time. Finally look at the company contributes back to the community. Do they provide open source code? Do they give training and conferences? Do they have a blog for tutorials? A good company will give back and invest in others using every mean. There are leaders in the field of website design? Who are they? Let’s see and find out which is the best website design and development company! Big Drop Inc (NY, New York) Big Drop Inc is the best custom web design firm right now. They can elevate your entire business concept and can create an entire online presence centered on it. You will be pleased with the results and will likely notice more traffic coming to your site. Big Drop is the company which will handle the design portion for you and give you the website that wants people to stick around at and poke around for a while. The company has a wide and impressive list of clients from financial institutions to major retailers of small and medium size businesses located across the country. Webpage FX (Harrisburg, Pennsylvania) Webpage FX is a team of talented people who love helping their clients to succeed online. This custom web design firm is the top firm in Pennsylvania among small to medium sized business. They put user experience at the top of their list of priorities. They not only just create websites, Webpage FX is also a complete digital marketing agency offering a complete set of services to market it to potential customers including SEO, pay-per-click management, email marketing and social media promotion. Kohactive (Chicago, Illinois) Kohactive is a perfection in both interaction and innovation as well as one of the leading firms in worldwide. Kohactive offers clients the dynamic and innovative service they required to succeed in the world on online business. The professionals at Kohactive enhances the sites for conversion, engagement, and functionality. They communicate with each client to make them ensures that their perspective and professional vision is realized through the e-commerce campaign. The NetHawks (Lahore, Pakistan) The Nethawks has 5-year experience in the field of websites design and development. No matter what category of websites you are looking for online retailing, marketing, catalog, merchant or other, one will not regret the decision of choosing them. Many investors and entrepreneurs in Pakistan have a high level of trust in them. According to them “Until your satisfaction is not gained, their services is considered incomplete”. Skuba Design (New Orleans, Louisiana) Skuba Design is a full-service agency. They produce client’s product pages the most eye-catching, innovative and engaging. They are also capable of developing and creating content, market research, social media optimization, direct marketing, and brand strategy. The techies in the firm offer SEO services to get the client web pages visible in SERP ranking. They also develop motion graphics and motion videos. Final Thoughts Well, this a look at the top web design and development companies all around the world. They all have same things in common. They provide high-quality services, got an impressive list of clients, have a great looking portfolio and they all contribute to the community in one way or another. Planning to hire the best Web design and development company? Well, you need to read this article first before taking any step. Understand that the website acts as a window to provide an insight of your business to the customers. The website the web development company is going to design will play an important part in your company to achieve the desired marketing goals. Whether you are designing your website for the first time or revamping it, your hiring decision for the world’s best Web Design and Development Company will dictate your website success. With multiple options of the web design companies and each claiming to be the best, makes the choice difficult as which one is the right fit for your business. The perfect and the best approach is to adopt a thorough hiring process. Just like hiring a new employee, interview your web design firm to, ask questions, review performance, request for portfolio and check references. To help you, we brought here 20 interview questions to ask before hiring any web design company. This questionnaire session will help you and the company to get to know each other’s business well, your targeted audience and the objective for your websites. This will help the company to utilize their skills and develop the plan in a way to achieve your online business goals. So here we go: 1: What services do they offer? Commonly it assumes that a web design company offers web development, hosting, copywriting, e-commerce solutions, digital marketing services like SEO, social media or PPC management are related to each other whereas, in fact, these are different services from each other which require the different skillset. Never assume that a company is good at one thing just because they are offering another. Almost every web design and development company are now offering digital marketing services too but don’t rely on them and let them handle all the digital work unless you get a solid, the desired result. 2: Do you make Custom Web Design or use Themes? Web design and development companies offer both the options to satisfy their client needs. Some go for unique look and functionality built from scratch whiles others goes for the template to customize and save money. Discuss what you need for your website and compare the prices of both options before making any move. 3: Can you provide the Portfolio? Looking at the examples of the previously created websites by the web design company will help you evaluate the design diversity. Also check for the performance of their developed website while looking their portfolio, like site navigation, is the website well-crafted, are the designs modern, see if the design matches with the business. 4: Do you provide case studies to showcase the results of your web designs? Your website is not about only the online presence of your business but it should also get a return on investment and have the website deliver business results. For that, ask for case studies. The case studies will provide you specific results like increased online sales, increased the lead and boosted conversion rate in certain time period. 5: What strategies will be used to revenue for your site? The Web Design and Development Company you choose to design your website should be concerned about generating revenue for your website too. They should provide a genuine list of strategies that can be incorporate into a site design. These result-oriented strategies must be matched with your goals like proper placement of your business contact information, an eye-catching slideshow on the homepage features products and sales properly placed on every page of the website and prominent of CTAs to catch the visitor’s attention. 6: Will they Review your Current Website to analyze the performance before designing the New One? Firstly find out if your website design company plans to analyze the current site’s metrics to evaluate the strength and weaknesses before making any design changes. 7: What is their policy for building websites in comparison with your competitors? It is the most important question to ask and to use in the evaluation process. This can either be a good or bad thing, if the company has designed the website in the past similar to yours, they might have some better knowledge of what works the best and what doesn’t. 8: How will they handle your project? A website design and development process includes research, design, site development, and launch and evaluate. While asking the questions, do remember to ask who will be the specific person you will be in touch with, what will be the timelines for the different phases in the development process, in which way you will get progress reports and is there any project management system going to manage the tasks. 9: How much time required to analyze the business, market and the competitors? Planning out the website is the key to ensure its success. It requires researching in the industry, do a basic market analysis, before planning the functionality, content structure, element, and other things. 10: Who will be working on your website and what is their qualification? Make sure you know every individual of the team who is working on your website project to understand how your project will be managed. Also, it is important to know the experience level of your web project team along with the updated portfolio and references of their latest work. 11: How long will it take to complete the Website? Typically the website project timeline depends on the work required and how fast you can provide them with the required information. It will be worthy to discuss what they will do if they don’t meet their deadline. 12: How many pages will the Website Contains? Search engines love the websites which contain various pages and rich content. Normally a website has About Us, Contact Us, FAQs, and Terms & Conditions and other pages like blogs, services, testimonials, products will be decided according to your business type. 13: What will you require from me and will you create the logo for my site? Obviously, you are going to provide the Web Design and Development team the text, images, content and other required things for your site and if you want the content to be done by the web design company’s copywriters then you need to give them a brief detail about the nature of your work. Ask you Web Design Company how appealing they can make the logo for your website, seek for their experience in this area and look for their other logos created by them. 14: Will they help you get the Images for your Website? & will they outsource any of the work? Providing real pictures for your business is the best to get that unique factor in your website but in case if you don’t have any then ask the web design firm if they access to the public domain images or you need to pay royalty fees for it. Often web design companies outsource for the certain phases of your web project. If they do so, then ask for all the necessary details of them and how project coordination will be handled in-house. 15: What will be their price and what is included in their price? The pricing structure is of two types, flat project price, and second hourly rate. But do understand that prices depend on experience, expertise, and scope of the project. The second most important thing to ask is that what are the items included in the prices and what is not. Read here How you can set budget for your website 16: Will your website be compatible with every screen? Find out the most important factor and that is whether your website is responsive and compatible enough with smartphones, tablets and mobile devices or not. 17: Do they build search engine optimization into the websites? Nowadays every websites are coded with SEO in mind. So if you are designing a new website, it’s better to get a third party SEO firm do an SEO audit prior to launch to ensures that there are no technical issues. 18: How do they determine keywords for the site? & do they perform other SEO services? To have the right keywords on every page of your website is the necessary SEO marketing component. It would be great for the third party SEO firm to not only do a site audit but also the keyword study. Ask your web design company about the experience as who will be providing SEO and SEM services and the strategies applied. 19: What kind of CMS do they use? Ask them about the type of CMS used either third-party system of the custom built one. Also find out if it's web based interface supports Wordpress and other e-commerce platforms, compatible with all browsers. If you do not know how to use the live CMS then ask if they offer training for it. 20: What web standards and practices do they follow? A web design and development company should follow latest design trends and web development standards so that your website functions in all web browsers and operating systems. Wrapping it up Well here are some major questions you should ask before hiring any web design company and ensures you get a result-oriented partner to help you get the desired results which can give a measurable return on your website investment. Read Here: Is It the Right Time to Revamp Your Website Something really exciting is going on at Google. For the third time in just one week, Google has once again updated its search ranking algorithm, with many of the tools showing enormous variations in the Google rankings. Brett Tabke of WebmasterWorld, who termed this update as “Update Maverick”, said it was named in honor of yesterday’s Top Gun trailer release, as this update appears slightly furtive and detailed. Nevertheless, all the key algorithm tools are reporting an update has happened. Bret said that he is not a huge fan of naming an update for a movie, and would have preferred something around the 50th anniversary of the moon landing but “Google had their opportunity to name it and they didn't get back to me after numerous attempts.” Some of the tools realtime screenshots: Source: https://algoroo.com Source: https://www.advancedwebranking.com/google-algorithm-changes Source: https://www.semrush.com/sensor Source: https://serpmetrics.com/flux A website is basically a window to your online store. It is the face of the company and remembers first impressions are always lasting ones. Website Development with Drupal is becoming the first choice for online business owners because of its flexible web architecture and special features of designs and functionalities. So if you have planned to build or revamp your existing website with Drupal CMS development then it is time to make another challenging decision i.e choosing the web development company for the Drupal Development. Keep in mind that every Drupal developer has different and unique skills and capabilities. One Drupal developer may offer a lot more than the other and vice versa. Thus it is important to make the right decision. This article here will help you in making the right selection by checking few basics but important factors while choosing any web development company for the Drupal development. Skilled, Professional & Certified The Drupal Development Company you have selected to hire for your Drupal CMS development should be capable enough to execute the whole project in an efficient manner and have enough experience to manage and handle the project of any sizes. Experimental attitude would be a plus point. Experimenting with the ideas is the essential element for achieving success in the virtual world. Work Experience One should check the Drupal Development Company previous working experience before hiring them. Contact their previous customers, see their portfolio of work, and check their developers working experiences in this field. Reputation is only made by contented customers and quality work will always leave a trail of satisfied and happy customers. Active Drupal Community Drupal is an open-source platform and has a large active community. Choose that Drupal development company who is active within the Drupal community, they will definitely have their organization’s key personnel profile on it. You can check their previously done projects, their outcome and the remarks and comments of the previous customers. Maintenance & Technical Support The development of Drupal website is not all that a Drupal website development company should be capable of because the website requires constant monitoring and regular update. A professional Drupal Development company should provide round-the-clock maintenance and technical support services. Drupal as their Specialty When any web development company claims of being “Drupal specialist”, ensures their claim. The Drupal CMS developers should be a team of front-end, back-end developers, site architecture, site builders, themes etc and should be specialized in the framework. Since the success of the web development projects relies on the team, Drupal development should be their specialty than another framework. Conclusion Considering these factors will help you choose the right Web development Company for the Drupal development. Learning PHP is usually the first step in programming for the web. Its importance needs no explanation but just to let you know, the world’s top websites like Facebook, Google, Wikipedia and YouTube runs PHP script on their backends. It is undoubtedly the most popular programming language and whoever plans on jumping into the world of programming must learn it. If you are starting to learn PHP, there is an ocean of learning materials but we can help save your time by finding the right material for you. We have selected some of the best PHP coding books that will transform you into a skilled professional from a complete novice in no time. Before listing the top PHP books for learning, here’s a little orientation of PHP itself. What is PHP? Introduced by Rasmus Lerdorf, it stands for Hypertext Pre-processor. It is an open source, server-side scripting language which is easy to learn and can run on different operating systems such as Windows, LINUX, UNIX, and more. PHP can create static as well as dynamic websites and web applications. It not only connects the form data but also creates, reads, writes, closes, and deletes files on the server. PHP Programming Books Learning PHP programming or developing PHP applications is not difficult. There are plenty of tutorials and detailed courses that can provide you a lot of useful insight on PHP. Also, there several print books that you can purchase to learn about the programming language. Here are the few best books that will broaden your knowledge of PHP programming. Programming PHP: Creating Dynamic Web Pages Author: Rasmus Lerdorf Programming PHP is an excellent resource for beginners. It works quite well for them as it covers all the concepts rather than minute details which helps build up a strong foundation. It is a 540-page-long book especially recommended for people who are new to backend coding. The first chapter of the book covers all the basics of server-side code. This introductory book comes handy to pockets and a great investment if you want a detailed introduction of the PHP language Modern PHP Author: Josh Lockhart If you are looking for a detailed beginner book, unlike the typical ones, Modern PHP is the right one for you. It covers everything with great details whether they are namespaces, objects, classes, or security concerns. If you know how to Google your questions correctly, then Modern PHP is looking to up your game right away. It is a definite yes for beginners. Besides, the intermediate-level coders can also make the most of it because there are many topics in the book that go deeper than the level of beginners. If you want to build a custom SaaS app or just editing a WordPress framework, this book is the right pick for you as it will help you learn whatever you need and give you the in-depth information of everything you need to learn. Learning PHP 7 Author: Antonio Lopez PHP 7 is the latest version of PHP language which is all set to improve speed and performance on all servers. PHP 7 is only about restructuring with the backend and how objects, classes and memories are handled and does not have any major changes code-wise. With this book, you can dive into the world of PHP 7 and can get a grip over all the concepts and coding techniques. Not to forget, it is a beginner’s book and shouldn’t be a choice of semi-experienced coders. There are exercises given which are simple to follow. Learning PHP 7 will make learning fun for the programmers. The Joy of PHP Programming: A Beginner’s Guide Author: Alan Forbes For a lighter introduction of PHP, Joy of PHP Programming is the apt choice. As the name best describes it, the book is for absolute beginners to catch up quickly. Alan Forbes’ book has a very practical stance for learning PHP. It starts with some basic HTML and goes step-by-step as to how PHP actually works with a series of close-knit and fun-filled exercises. The book provides great information on PHP and MYSQL. After completing the book, one can read, write and modify PHP scripts and can make one’s own dynamic websites. PHP & MYSQL Novice to Ninja Author: Kevin Yank This book will give a solid ground on both PHP and MYSQL in the most convenient and readable manner. In this book, you can learn and explore some important and useful PHP elements such as regular expression/session management. It is highly recommended for beginners. Moreover, PHP & MYSQL contains an excellent chapter on structured programming. This book is really good for beginners because it’s well-written, engaging and covers the basics of PHP and MYSQL. Head First PHP & MYSQL Author: Lynn Beighley & Michael Morrison Head First PHP & MYSQL is the ultimate learning guide to building dynamic and database-driven websites. It is an 800-page-long book and contains wide-ranging topics, basic and advanced, on PHP and MYSQL coding such as form validation, cookies, database queries, file I/O operation, content management, and more. It is undoubtedly one of the best books for beginners. Learning PHP, MYSQL, JavaScript, CSS & HTML5 Author: Robin Nixon This book is the second edition of the top-selling guide to the web development. This latest edition is easier to follow and has a large amount of information. You can practice whatever you learn from this book with the review questions given at the end of each chapter. The book also describes a sample social networking platform built with the help of elements introduced in the book. PHP and MYSQL Web Development Author: Luke Welling & Laura Thompson The book is a complete guide as to how to make use of the PHP tools to create interactive and effective web applications. Every chapter in the book explains PHP from the beginning to the end and instantly moves over to MySQL. It explains the basics of the PHP language and how to set up MYSQL database. It also tells how PHP interacts with the database. The book also contains excellent examples that demonstrate common PHP tasks. This book is, simply put, a crash course of PHP. The PHP & MYSQL: The Missing Manual Author: Brett McLaughlin This book will take you to the next level in PHP programming. Reading this book will help you learn the management of content, creation of the database and interaction with users. The book’s step-by-step tutorials will broaden your knowledge on server-side programming PHP: A Beginner’s Guide Author: Vikram Vaswani PHP: A Beginner’s Guide will help you understand how to write basic PHP programs with more advanced features such as MYSQL database integration, XML input, and third-party extensions. Although it works well for beginners, I personally think it is also appropriate for intermediate-level learners because it covers sufficient information on software installations, language syntax, flow control routines, data structures, and built-in functions. Never Quit Learning Anyone who is unknown to the world of PHP Programming can get started from any of the aforementioned books. They are for beginners who want to develop PHP websites and applications and excel into the world of PHP programming. Read Here 20 Best Websites for Learning PHP Programming Magento e-commerce developers who are new might face some common mistakes in Magento development. E-commerce website development with Magento is much easy if you have an idea about the tips and have some tricks to build an attractive store. This article is about development tips for Magento developers to avoid common mistakes in Magento development and to improvise the Magento development practice. Before moving on, you have to make sure that you have Magento installed on your system. Let us see some coolest tricks and tips for Magento ecommerce developers so that you can be a Magento geek too. Setting up Magento (BASIC STEPS) Ecommerce web design with Magento is very comfortable. For that first of all you have to setup Magento on your system so that you can further develop e-commerce website with Magento. To set up: Go to System > Cache Management > Disable. Next, you have to enable Logging settings. To do that go to System > Configuration > Advanced > Developer > and head over to Log Settings. Now choose the Enabled option, and the logging setting will get enabled allowing you to do Magento custom development. Magento development services provide us the service of SEO. To enable the SEO setting again go to System > Configuration and head over to The Web and Search Engine Optimization. Now check the Yes option for the Use Web Server Rewrites. Next action is to configure the reindex management. Navigate to System > Index Management and choose Reindex all. To enable the Developer Mode go to .htaccess and add the following line of code at the end: etEnv MAGE_IS_DEVELOPER_MODE “true." Within <IfModule mod_php5.c> tag add php_value display_errors On in .htaccess Locate /errors/local.xml.sample and now rename it to /errors/local.xml. Never Edit Core Files Some Common mistakes in Magento development that developers make is that they edit the core files while doing custom Magento development. The first rule of Magento development practice is never to alter those core files of the Magento platform if you want to achieve any functionality you can use any Magento extensions. The only solution that Magento ecommerce development provides is to edit “Shipping.php” file located at “appcodecoreMageShippingModelShipping.php.” You have two options you can alter the same file here, or you can make a new file of the same name and then after editing you can copy and then paste it in the following path. This trick works if you want to do any Magento custom development without altering the core files. So next time when you will upgrade your Magento platform, those files will get overwrite because Magento always looks for files in a local directory that is (app code local) before looking for a file in the core directory. Turn on Template Path Hints If e-commerce website development with Magento is the new thing to you, then you surely can realize some hassle while understanding the logic behind the file structure and block structure of a Magento layout when you try to customize the storefront. Magento development services provide you the solution so that you can enjoy while developing with Magento. Magento has the best feature that helps you by displaying hints showing where the different files of your layout are. So using this feature it would be easy for you to locate them you can edit them. But to access this feature, you have to enable it so that Magento ecommerce development will get easy for you. Follow these steps. To access it you have to log in to your administration panel. Now next step is to navigate to System > Configuration. Now find “Current Configuration Scope” from the left navigation column on top. Select “Main Website” from the drop down menu. Now go to Developer > Advance at the left navigation column. Here you can see Template Path Hints under “Debug” just select Yes. Hit Save Config button. After that you have done the above configurations on your Magento system you will see some red boxes on your storefront. These red boxes are underlying structure of the pages regarding templates and blocks. PS: Only use this trick when you are in a development environment. Otherwise, your storefront would look hideous with big red blocks everywhere. Best GUI for Magento Development Ecommerce web design with Magento can be more lovely if you use JetBrainfs PhpStorm. It is a Php editor that 'understands' your code and its structure. Thus provides full support for all PHP language features for modern and legacy projects. The other features of PhpStorm are: PHP 5.5 support Improved PHP syntax coloring Vagrant, SSH console & remote tools Support for Magento frameworks Debugging and testing improvements Best Magento Plugins for Magento Developers If Magento programmers want to choose best Magento development practices to make Magento e-commerce development easy and more catchy, than you can use Magicento is a PHPStorm plugin for Magento developers. Some of the features are: Goto and autocomplete for factories Goto for template paths XML files Class names Documentation for XML nodes Inside Magento environment evaluation of PHP code And much more to have! Best Magento Development Environment Magento e-commerce developers love you to use XAMPP for Magento Development Environment.XAMPP is free and easy to install Apache server. It contains MySQL, PHP, MariaDB, and Perl. XAMPP is an open source package that is very easy to install and to use. You can download it from the official site so you can start Magento custom development. Remember!! XAMPP setup is necessary to be installed on your system before you start working on e-commerce website development with Magento. Believe it or not, one cannot run a Magento store without a certified, skilled, professional Magento developer. Because there’s always something which needs to be fixed or resolved in the Magento. According to a study 240,000 online businesses are using Magento and that number is only growing, it is no surprise anymore that there’s a high demand for Magento developers. But the real question is how to find and hire a certified Magento Developer? Magento is an open source CMS but it is considered one of the most complex eCommerce platforms. Comparing Magento with its competitors like Opencart & Shopify, Magento stands out among them in terms of SEO, user interface, customization, types, automation & shipments of products and some more features. The complexity in Magento arises when it’s the time for setting it up and operating it independently. Here in this article, I am going to explain how to hire a certified Magento developer and what key points you need to keep in mind while looking for a Magento Developer. The list of things needs to be considered is given below. One Time v/s Ongoing Magento Project So are you in search for someone to fix one thing in your Magento store or for someone who can make ongoing changes? This is something important to consider because developers might not be available for fixing small things and can only work on long term projects. While hiring a Magento developer for ongoing changes, ensures that they are fully available to work. Because developers prefer to work with long term commitment and wouldn’t like to work on small projects. In all the case, the best thing to do is to test the Magento developer with small projects. If you are happy with the kind of work they deliver, hire them! Magento Development Agency v/s Magento Freelancer Freelancers are best for doing small work. Because a person cannot have all the skills and abilities in comparison to a group of skilled, experienced people. You can hire multiple freelancers for different tasks, but you’ll find difficulty in managing them all. Whereas on the other hand, a Magento development agency has a bunch of dedicated professionals along with the project manager who will make sure you get all the required facilities with the best quality under one roof. In short, a Magento development agency can do a far better job than a freelancer. List Down all the Expertise you Expect from your Magento Developer. Before hiring Magento developer, find out their brief background. It’s the most important thing to know what kind of experience, knowledge and skills your developer possess. The 3 main question you must ask from your Magento developer are: What framework will he choose to work on? Does he have the sound knowledge of your desired framework? Is he really aware with all the latest Magento technology? Where to Find the Magento Developers? You now must be clear about the kind/type of the Magento developer you need, now it’s time to find the best Magento developer. Your Own Circle Your personal network is the best place to ask for a good Magento developer. Ask from your friends, colleagues if they know any and are happy with. Hire someone who has been tested before so the chances of project failure will be less. Magento Solution Partners The Magento Official Development Company has their own Magento solution partner community who can help in all kinds of Magento implementations and solutions. They are professionals offering Magento support, training and services. Magento Certification Directory If you are looking for skilled Magento developers then you need to check Magento Certification Directory. They have here all the certified Magento developers. The difference between Solution Partners and Certification Direction is here you find Magento skilled people not Magento development companies. Freelance Websites Websites for freelancers like oDesk, Elance have thousands of freelance Magento developers. All you need to do is simply post up your job there and it will show a list of interested Magento developers. Magento Events Magento Industry Events is a big platform for serious, skilled and professional Magento developers to network with others and learn about the latest changes in the Magento framework. Social Platforms Twitter, Facebook and Linkedin are the great source to find Magento developers. For twitter use #Magento and #MagentoJobs to search for. On Linkedin, you can search directly for Magento developers and can join Magento Developers group. The same goes for Facebook. Summary Finding the best Magento developer is not that easy, but a little bit of effort can bear the fruit. Well, this article is here to guide you in the search for the right Magento developer. E-commerce business continues to skyrocket and when there is money to be made, criminals are here to follow. Online stores are the prime targets for cyber crimes. This is not new as the e-commerce websites are more lucrative for the cyber criminals. This is because e-commerce website process the customer’s money which is itself lucrative for the cyber criminals and secondly the transactions contain sensitive data of the customers that are directly associated with their credit cards, allowing various scams and frauds easier to make. Your e-commerce website is not just a website you are running there, in fact, you are also responsible for your customer's financial and personal security. There is a saying for this: “Running a website brings responsibility whereas running an e-store brings even greater responsibility” So how exactly can you secure you e-commerce store against hacking attempts and cyber crimes? Following are some tips and hacks to enhance your e-commerce store security. Select a Secure Ecommerce Platform: Choose the e-commerce platform which uses a sophisticated OOP language (Object Oriented language) Set up a Secure Connection for Checkout: Use strong SSL (Security Socket Layer) to protect the website and the data. SSL certificates give authentication that your e-business is safe and the data is encrypted in transit. This will secure your e-store and your customers from losing their important and financial information. No More Sensitive Storage Data: There is no need to store extra records of your customers especially credit card numbers, expiration dates and card verification value codes (CVVC). Instead, keep a minimal amount of data to chargebacks and refund. Enable Address & Card Verification System: Employ AVS (Address Verification System) and CVVC (Card Verification Value Code) for credit card transactions to reduce fraud rates. Put Strong Passwords: It’s not the only responsibility of online retailers to secure their customer's information on the back-end, but also to require a strong password from the customers. A password which has minimum characters along with symbols and numbers are harder for cybercriminals to breach into the e-commerce site from front-end. Put up System Alert for Suspicious Activity: Set up system alert notice for multiple transactions done through same IP address. Similarly, online retailers can put up these alerts for multiple orders placed by the same person using different credit cards and phone numbers which are from different areas than billing addresses and orders where the receipt name is different from the card holder name. Layer you E-commerce Security: Layering your security is one of the best ways to keep your e-business secure from cyber-attacks. Put up firewalls, an essential part in stopping cyber criminals before they can breach and get access to your critical and sensitive information. You can add some more extra layers of security to your e-commerce site and the applications such as contact forms, login boxes and search query. These steps will ensure that your e-commerce site is protected from application-level attacks like SQL injections and XSS (Cross-site Scripting) Security Training for Employees: Provide security training to employees and make them understand that they should never reveal private customer information on email or in chats as none of these methods are secure. Make use of strict written protocols and policies and encourage employees to implement them. Use Tracking Number for Orders: To fight back against chargeback fraud, keep a record of every tracking numbers for the orders you send out. It is very important for those online retailers who do drop ship. Monitor your Ecommerce Site: Use analytics tool. It is equivalent of installing security cameras in your shop. Tools like Woopra or Clicky will let you keep an eye as for how the customers are navigating and interacting with your e-commerce store. With the help of these tools, you can detect fraud and any suspicious behavior. One more thing to make sure is to check whoever is hosting your e-commerce site, monitors their servers from malware, viruses and other harmful activity. Do Regular PCI Scans: Perform regular PCI scans through Trustwave to lessen the risks of hacking attempts against your e-commerce store. If your e-commerce store is using a third-party downloaded software like Magento or PrestaShop, then stay updated with the latest versions of them with improved security measurements. Security is an ongoing process. The success of an online store is that your customers should feel confident in the dedication to online security. Do remember, your e-commerce site is really important to your business, protect it and secure your customer's data. Follow our above guideline to find out if your e-commerce store is vulnerable and requires security. So do you know PHP is a widely used programming language for creating dynamic sites and web applications. Many powerful platforms such as Wordpress, Wikipedia are powered by PHP. The one thing that people mostly don’t recognize is about coding PHP or any other programming language is that it is real easy to teach yourself. One don’t specifically need to spend the large amount of money or attend any tech school for certifications. It says that everyone has to start somewhere, similarly you cannot learn PHP overnight. We have gathered here a huge list of 20 best online sites to learn PHP programming or broaden or enhance your skillset even if you already know the basics of PHP. Whether you are a beginner, intermediate or pro, these below given online website links will definitely help you develop your skills more. The Top 20 Online Sites to learn PHP 1: PHP Manual7 The official PHP manual is the comprehensive guide on PHP programming. The manual almost covers everything from basics to the implementation of security and other PHP functions. Though the manual is not that interactive or attractive but it is the best guide out there. It’s simple structure and easy-to-understand layout is even accessible from mobile devices. If you want to know about anything and by anything I mean it, you will find in this guide. 2: PHP Tutorial by Tizag For PHP reference material, PHP Tutorial by Tizag is an ideal resource which mainly focuses on the definition of PHP, commands and methods for using. You better keep it bookmarked, because you will be needing this tutorial especially when doing the practical coding since it serves as a direct reference just like a textbook. 3: PHP 101 As per the name, PHP 101 is designed while keeping the absolute beginner in mind. If you are a beginner and learning PHP from scratch then this guide is designed for you. The site consists entertaining and useful tutorials with clear, concise and completely easy-to-understand content especially for the beginners. Once you are done with the whole tutorial, you will be able to create a simple RSS news aggregator. The only thing this tutorial lacks is the non-availability of screenshots. 4: Killer PHP This Killer PHP tutorial is specifically for the videos. It’s a hands-on tutorial. Just dive in, learn usable PHP skills and dive out. That’s it. Each section of the tutorial has a complimentary video in the end though not that which you will call of a high-caliber. Killer PHP is one of those eccentric wild cards that turns out to be the most useful one. 5: The Learn PHP Tutorial The learn PHP tutorial is the perfect guide for the beginners. Consists list of downloadable videos that will make you walk through the basics of PHP. Ideal for beginners and offers an interactive visual guide. You will not only learn PHP but will also learn what you can do more with the examples and best practices. 6: PHP Tutorial by W3CSchool The guide PHP Tutorial by W3CSchool is similar to PHP Tutorial by Tizag. The whole style and presentation is almost identical. But that doesn’t mean the guide is useless. In fact it can be used as a reference. This online guide is free to learn and also offers certification that costs around 95$. 7: PHPBuddy The online guide PHPBuddy contains online tutorials, lessons and articles on PHP programming. It is full of texts and with limited videos and screenshots. But don’t get scare away with it, it is still one of the worthy reference. 8: CodeCourse Formerly known as PHP Academy, Codecourse contains highly descriptive content. The tutorial is not only limited to PHP but also teach other web development tools and languages. So if you are a beginner and starting with PHP, this tutorial is the perfect match for you. Their tutorials are available on their official site as well as on YouTube. 9: SitePoint PHP The SitePoint PHP is a modern approach as its guides and tutorials are displayed in the article-like format. It is best for beginners but great for intermediate and pros to help them stay up-to-date with the latest PHP trends. 10: TutorialsPoint PHP Like other tutorials, TutorialsPoint PHP has a whole entire section dedicated only to PHP programming with guides and lessons ideal for beginners and intermediate levels. The tutorial even also offers an ebook for free download as a PDF file. 11: PHP 5 Power Programming The PHP 5 Power Programming is basically an eBook for PHP beginners, intermediate and advanced programmers to download it for free. The eBook is completely free and you do not need to pay unless you want the print version which cost money. 12: Hacking With PHP Formerly known as Practical PHP Programming, Hacking with PHP consist of different chapters breaking down into separate topics and elements, giving an overview of the language with brief introduction and some practical exercises with additional links to resources. 13: PHP The Right Way The tutorial PHP The Right Way is completely dedicated to PHP coding. The site consists of extensive tutorials on a variety of PHP topics and multiple references to other good practice tutorials and sites. This online tutorial may consist of old and outdated information for the advanced coders / programmers. 14: PHP Academy The perfect online site for visual learners to see the coding and result live. The PHP Academy YouTube channel is a great platform for those who are looking for something specific in PHP. The best part about the site is that its content gets updated not daily but weekly. 15: PHP Video Tutorials This site offers PHP online tutorial with the minimum length of 6 to 22 mins, depending on the chapter. Comparing with the other online tutorial, the site may lack in some ways for teaching PHP development, but still a worthy one for beginners. 16: Develop PHP The Develop PHP site consists a variety of online PHP tutorials for beginners to intermediate and even for the advanced level. The videos are basically hosted via YouTube and embedded on the site, but the develop PHP site provides an easier and organized way to pull up any course. 17: Bento PHP Resources Like Treehouse, Lynda and Code School, Bento PHP Resources is also an online coders library. Consisting of specialized PHP resources which will help you go through easy, hard and medium tutorials for beginners and expert level coders. 18: VideoPHP Blog No matter whether you are a beginner or to intermediate level, dive into this VideoPHP Blog resource created by Jefferey Way from ThemeForest. But what if you are an advanced coder, well the online tutorial has other areas for you with plenty of additional resources. 19: PHP Jabbers This online tutorial is a gem for intermediate to advanced coders. PHP Jabbers contain a lot of specialized guides for intermediate to advanced PHP coders. This will help in learning and creating a PHP calendar to setting up a custom Captcha system. 20: Microsoft Azure PHP Tutorials and Documentation Microsoft Azure PHP Tutorial is all about cloud computing. The site contains PHP tutorials and documentation related to Azure with some hidden gems in it. If you are easy to work with Azure, then this site is a perfect place for you. The End of the Massive List Well, I hope you are able to find at least one resource to get you started with PHP programming or help you give a better shape to your PHP skills. If you like to learn in a class-style format, then you should check out online code schools like Lynda, Treehouse or Code School. Here You Can Find Top 7 Best Books to Learn PHP Programming With the tough competition going on and the tendency to produce something innovative for the customers, the web development companies are now focusing on using cutting-edge technologies to develop custom applications. To develop any application, the first thing you need to understand is the nature of your business in order to deploy the application which is suitable for your business. And the second most thing is the selection of the best technology platform for the development process. With the continuous change and demand in the technology market, Microsoft created Asp.Net Framework to create feature rich websites and web applications. Active server pages or Asp, is the perfect platform for creating high-end applications. Dot Net is the best server side scripting technology where Windows web server is used to host Asp.Net websites and web applications. Introducing Asp by Microsoft corporation is one of the biggest achievement as to meet the market demand of dynamic web pages which can be viewed on different web browsers. With dot net you can create reliable and reusable applications. The Asp.Net framework is a highly popular one and relatively easy for the .Net developers to create compelling Asp.net applications by using Visual Studio. Well the good part is, it is not only limited to Asp but also give the advantage to the developers to make use of other programming languages like C#, VB etc. Let’s take a look at some key advantages of using Asp.Net Framework 1: Keep you Asp.net applications secured with the built-in Windows authentication and per-application configuration. 2: Asp.Net has reduced the long lines of code required to develop large applications. 3: Asp.Net and Html, together generate dynamic web pages smoothly. 4: Being an ideal server-side scripting technology, Asp.Net code first runs on Windows server before displaying on the web browser. 5: Asp.Net framework is language independent, means you can choose any programming language which best suited to you application. 6: With the built-in configuration information, Asp.Net is easy to deploy. 7: The windows web server thoroughly monitors the web pages, multiple components, and applications running over it. 8: The Dot Net Framework quickly gives an alert for memory leaks, unbounded loops, and other wrong behaviors, immediately killing them and restart them over again. 9: Asp.Net features like early binding, JIT compilation, caching services and native optimization supports gives your application the high level of performance. 10: All the Asp.Net applications are highly monitored and managed to help application available to handle requests. 11: The best part of Dot Net Framework is it has its own built-in caching features. 12: The content and the program logic are separated in the .Net Framework, thus reducing the program inconveniences. Microsoft Asp.Net Framework is a widely used development framework for building enterprise level web applications, that today’s developers love to use. The Dot Net technology offers immeasurable benefits for various issues like memory management, security, and exceptional handling, a developer may face. The above-mentioned advantages made Asp.Net Framework an ideal choice for developing .Net Application Development. So what are you still waiting for? Let’s get started with this next-generation platform! And if we missed out any of the other advantages of .net, then do let us know in the comment below. Read here Top 4 ASP.NET Trends For 2017 From past 14 years, Asp.net has marked its name as one of the best web development technologies and developers considers it the best offer from Microsoft. Asp.net has the best features and functionalities to help your business grow. Each year new trends emerge to enhance the development phase of new technologies. Here I’m going to discuss some key trends of Microsoft .net application development services beneficial for both developers and businesses for the year 2017. The Big Revamp Microsoft .Net Development has given us all a big surprise by announcing asp.net core 1.0 which is not any similar to asp.net 4.6 but a whole new framework. Well, it does contain same elements of Asp.net we have been familiar with but on the other hand, it has become smaller and modular. This change happens due to the portability but it took development to the next level. The major advantage of the core Asp.net is it supports more languages, making things easier for developers. Mobile Development Developing a mobile app using asp.net was nearly an impossible task. Declined by the windows based smartphones and tablets had nearly ended the enthusiasm for mobile development. But it’s 2017 and things have been changed and taken U-turns. New advancements and improvements in this .net framework will see more of mobile development in the upcoming years. The core .net platform will be used to develop apps for not only just for Android but also for iOS platforms. IoT & Big Data From the past few years, Internet of things (IoT) and Big Data gathered too much attention. Big organizations are looking for large volumes of data to get an insight and make informed decisions in real time. Well in 2017, we will get to see more asp.net development as the platform helps businesses capitalize on the big data and IoT technology. One can get the advantage of highly flexible and scalable IoT and big data-based solutions by combining Asp.net with IIS server. This will help you to grow your business by achieving the desired goals. Cloud Services From the past few years, cloud services have gained a lot of fame and it really takes no time to move your data and applications to the cloud. Microsoft has strongly marketed their Azure Cloud Services and this year we can expect major and a big change. .Net applications are now being developed and implemented in the cloud. Here’s another good news, it is now possible to create multi-tier .net applications which got Asp.net MVC as front end and deploy it on the cloud. These applications will be using Azure SQL database, the Azure Blob service, and Azure Queue Service. Conclusion. With this new release of .net development and the demand for better UX especially on the mobile, Asp .Net development will definitely lead the way in this new era thus helping online businesses to interact with their audiences. So if you want to get the best out of your .net development, we are here to help you out with the latest trends of Asp.net with the help of our experts. Write to us in the comment section below about these latest trends of Asp.net and let us know if you know any. Read here Top 12 Advantages of ASP.NET Framework The graph of popularity for the messaging apps is increasing day by day and becoming a hot trend for the e-commerce business owners as they are getting benefit from it. Social media platform and messaging apps provide a lot of marketing and user interaction opportunities for the business owners. Because through this they can market their products and can also offer customer services to their users through these chatbots. Chatbots are actually AI (Artificial Intelligence) based software applications that can easily integrate into the messaging platforms. A chatbot function in various ways such as in e-commerce or marketing depending on their type like they can personally talk to u or can give you automatic customer services or can even tell you the current service you are providing or the products your website is offering. Chatbots are basically programmed to behave like human beings and are made to perform multiple tasks like collecting information or feedbacks from the customers or the consumer preferences. The typical question is how exactly can you build a chatbot for your website? Well here are 7 top best chatbot creator apps to build your own chatbot. They are easy to use or implement as most of them don’t need any programming. Chatfuel: Chatfuel, an ideal chatbot creator for the business pages on facebook. Chatfuel will guide and help you in building your own chatbot without any knowledge needed for the coding. The additional feature in chatfuel is the easy navigation steps to guide the consumers in a more friendly way. Chatfuel is catering over 7 million users globally and is used by some world-renowned websites like Uber, National geographic and Techcrunch. Around 230,000 chatbots are created by chatfuel for different industries. Smooch: Smooch behaves and acts like a connector or a bridge between the business apps like slack, zendesk, and others and between the messaging apps too like line, Facebook messenger, WeChat, and others. Smooch forwards all your incoming chat notifications from the messages apps to your business apps. Through this, you can answer the chat questions of your customers even without the business apps. Beep Boop: Beep Boop is modern paid to host chatbot builders which are specifically for Facebook messenger or Slack. Set up the bot source code on Github, launch it on Beep Boop and integrate it with any of the messaging apps. The Beep Boop chatbot is used for Facebook business pages to interact with customers via real chat, can answer their questions and can guide them through transactions. Microsoft Bot Framework: Microsoft Bot Framework has its own platform for creating chatbots which not only offers conversation but also attachment options. Microsoft Bot Framework can build chatbots for Skype, Facebook Messenger, Slack, Office 365, email and more. The framework offers chatbot builders with SDKs for Node.js and.Net platform. The framework has its Bot directory which has an impressive collection of pre-built bots. Botsify: Botsify is another chatbot creator tool mainly for Facebook Messenger. Botsify has simple to use interface which lets business owners build their own chatbot without any coding. This tool has Facebook Messenger API which offers features that help developers to configure personalized responses, align messages, integrate with Wordpress and also can pull data from data analytics tool. Botsify also supports media contents like audio, images and video files. Pandorabots: Pandorabots is web-based tools and services which allow to host and create chatbots. With this tool, you can create AI based chatbots for customer services, IOT interfaces, advertising, games and more. Pandorabots has a large online community of 225k+ developers and more than 285k+ chatbots are created by this platform. The platform has also a tool called AIaaS (Artificial Intelligence as a Service) which is a RESTful API for accessing the bot hosting platform and integrating chatbot into the web and mobile applications. Motion AI: Motion AI is the platform for enterprises to create and deploy chatbots for Facebook Messenger, Slack, Email, Web, and SMS. The platform has free plans as well as premium plans. It also has documentation to help you creating a chatbot easily. Motion AI also has a bot store to allow developers to share their chatbots with others. Conclusion. Chatbots are unique and latest way to interact with the users and offer them your services. The popularity of chatbots is growing at a fast pace. Chatbot expert Murray Newlands said that “Where 10 years ago every company needed a website and five years ago every company needed an app, now every company needs to embrace messaging with AI and chatbots” As you know, the virtual marketplace is growing so fast, and most of the physical stores are also running their e-businesses and many new business owners are focusing on their online marketplace. Through this, they are increasing their sales and revenue each and every day. As more or more people are attracted towards shopping online and seeing this new mode of shopping portals, more and more online businesses are starting up their online presence accordingly. If you are the one who is running or thinking to starting up an online store, so your first top priority should be on increasing the customers on your online store as much as possible. Search Engine Optimization is the one of the keys to get the tracking of the visitors' data through webmaster that tells the exact figure of the presence online customers on your website. You can find the precise data of your needs that how many audiences visited your website from which location available through webmaster. But I’m going to share here some killer tips to best optimize your Magento store that I’ve discovered over the years. Web Configuration: Make a start with optimizing your Magento website through Search Engine Optimization (SEO) Option in the website configuration: Step 1: Go to System Step 2: Configuration Step 3: Admin Panel of the website Now, Under the URL option; change the setting “Add Store Code to URLs” to “no”. This will help you to prevent unnecessary keywords from the URL. In the same section, under SEO Option set “Server URL Rewrite” to “yes”. It will remove “index.php” from all URL for the same purpose. Metadata: Don’t forget to add Meta title and Meta Description under the Search Engine Optimization option. Do add keywords in Meta title and make sure Meta title should not more than 66 characters also do add Meta description and it should not be more than 156 characters. Meta description helps you to increase your CTR. Content: Your website content should be really unique and avoid using the duplicate content. Suppose, if you are adding two different types of t-shirts so keep in mind, do not add same content because both the products should have their own unique content with their specification or features. Images: Images are the most important element of any e-commerce site. For image optimization, you must have to focus on these points. Always try to use meaningful image names that describes the image the best. Also remember to use Alt Tag and Title for images. These points help to create visibility of your images on Search Engine. Robots.txt: Make sure that robots.txt file allows the robots to crawl the website which is the simplest and easiest point. If search engine cannot crawl your website then all of the above works will not going to work for you. SiteMap: To make Google index your website, create an automated Google sitemap following below steps: System => Configuration => Google Sitemap In the “Generation Settings” box, enable sitemap generation Change your sitemap settings when adding a new category or a product, or a page, so that your sitemap comprises of all your new items. Google WebMaster: Google WebMaster is a free SEO tool introduced by Google to help your website rank in the Google. One can easily add "Google WebMaster Tool Verification Tag" in Magento by following these steps: System => Configuration => Design => HTML Heads Put your “Google Webmaster Tools verification tag” in the “Miscellaneous Scripts”. Google Analytics: Google Analytics will help you keep a track of your website and its performance. To enable Google Analytics on your Magento website requires just following two steps: Enable “” by going to this path: System => Configuration => Google API Set “Enable option” to “Yes” and type your Account Number in the box. Magento SEO Plugins: Plugins are also available to make a Magento developer's life easy and to give you the best results. Here are some Magento SEO plugins to optimize your Magento SEO: Magento SEOSpace Extension Yoast_MetaRobots Canonical URL for Magento: SEO Suite Pro MSemantic Basic SEO Suite Enterprise SEO Layered Navigation Ultimate SEO Suite SEOgento Conclusion Cover these aspects of Magento SEO and execute them in your Magento website and get your desired traffic results. Did we miss out any other SEO trick for Magento? Do let us know in the comment below! The word “Drupal” originated from the Dutch word “Druppel” which means drop. Drupal is free and a prominent open-source CMS. Written in PHP, this framework is a preferred choice for all the websites from personal blogs to corporate, political, or even government sites. Drupal has several excellent features and because of this, it has become the top best CMS for developing business sites. Why Drupal? Drupal has the largest open source developer community with thousands of modules and zeroes licensing cost. Its extensions and features make it an extremely flexible and customizable platform which can help in creating some amazing websites and applications. With Drupal website development services you can create not only business websites but also social networking sites, blogging sites, news publishing websites, media and art sites and much more. Drupal Website Development Services: Here we’ll discuss 10 important factors as for why you should choose Drupal web development services for building business sites. Let’s start. Flexible Payment Modes: With Drupal, you can achieve your desired needs from your e-commerce sites because this platform provides full freedom in choosing payment modes and also allows you to build multiple payment modes or gateways as per your requirement. Can Set Versatile Price Slabs: Drupal is fantastic because it simplifies the whole process of enticing customers. It will also facilitate you to set price slabs for the overseas customers on account of location, product type, packaging and more. Products Features: It is trendy to highlight popular and the most selling items on your online store and with Drupal, you can do it real easily. Through this way, you can grab the attention of your customers for the most in-demand products online. It is an ingenious approach to Drupal Development. Protected Page Module With Secure Checkout & Login: The secure page is an e-commerce module that gives opportunity and ensures different simple ways to implement few primary example matching. If SSL certification is installed on your business website, then search any organization structure of module to design fully secured web pages. Depending on the module which you uses to enhance the functionality of your business site. Control SEO, CRO & Website Analytics Easily: Drupal gives the only single system to work so it is really easy to control the website analytics, SEO and conversion rates optimization (CRO) that is onerous with two systems. Along with this, customer journey optimization is also simpler because it has one journey despite two with the bridge. Role Management & Great Community Feature: The role and use feature of Drupal allow the access to use the functionality for any online store. Customers can also use this option to control features. It also consists a myriad of lucrative community features for online business owners which can help in attracting maximum customers in the loop and make them engaged. This amazing feature will no doubt repeat sales for a lifetime. Integrate External System: With RESTful API you can extend, enhance the functionality of Drupal platform with external systems for your online business store. This amazing functionality is also available in Drupal Commerce with the 3rd party system. Order Management Tools: You can manage, update, and view all the orders on your online store through the Drupal administration tool set. Or can even send update notifications with the Drupal order management tools. No Premium Plugins / Modules: There is no such existence of premium plugins or modules in Drupal community. Drupal commerce is basically an open-source and free-to-use software which consists no module or plugin. WYSIWYG Editorial Manager: WYSIWYG functionality powered mainly by Drupal brings out numerous reasons to include it in your site. Edit this editorial manager on setting structure and ensures that it represents your online store payment settings and contacts. One thing you should need to make sure is to change settings of editorial manager because no single procedures fit all sizes modules. Conclusion All the above-mentioned points make Drupal a cutting edge platform for creating any business website. These points no doubt justify as for why you should choose Drupal Website Development services to create the business site. Planning to mark your presence in the virtual industry? Well deciding where to start from may seem an overwhelming task. Most online business owners prefer websites to update the content on their own. Keeping this advantage in mind, the CMS is a logical and the perfect choice. When we talk about CMS, there are 3 major key players: Wordpress, Joomla, and Drupal. In this blog here, where are going to tell you how and why you should choose Drupal over Joomla. We’ll discuss the advantages and disadvantages of both the CMS to simplify your choice for the right CMS for your website. The Overview Technology, Community, and philosophy are the 3 common things in both these CMS. This two software are open source which means they are free to use. Both of them contains great features, built on PHP and have MYSQL as their database management system. Drupal and Joomla both uses themes or templates to give the visual appearance of your website and poses a variety of plugins and modules to give some extra functionalities to your website. With all these similarities, there are some differences as well. These both CMS differ in terms of how they handle system plugins or themes, how they deal with security and some more differences which can have a huge impact on users and how they will build your website. Let us compare these top two CMS platforms and why you should opt for Drupal instead of Joomla. Ease of Use v/s Complexity Joomla is a bit complex to use. Though its interface might seems attractive for new users. But it requires a lot of time to become familiar with the platform and the terminology. Drupal, the most complex of all. Requires the much-needed technical expertise. Well, its interface is easy when talking about updating the content but not so simple when you try to change the appearance. Features Joomla more geared as a community platform with strong, powerful social networking features. Whereas Drupal has powerful taxonomy features which help you in categorizing and organizing complex content. Installation, Themes & Plugins Good news, Both these platforms gives you the one-click installation services with 1000+ themes in Joomla and 1800+ themes in Drupal along with 32000+ modules in Joomla and 7000+ extensions in Drupal. E-commerce Both these platforms are available to make e-commerce websites except Drupal 8, the latest version of Drupal because it doesn’t support the stable e-commerce module yet. Developing e-commerce site with Joomla will provide extensions for managing products and content. Seo Optimized & Responsive Joomla gives you basic SEO and requires additional tweaks whereas, on the other hand, Drupal offers the best SEO services. Another good news for both the CMS developers, Drupal and Joomla both are mobile friendly and responsive in nature. Performance If Joomla is not tweaked properly, it can consume speed more quickly. While a Drupal site loads more quickly and gives faster response time than those Wordpress and Joomla websites. Why Prefer Drupal Over Joomla Well, no doubt both these CMS offers a great advantage and if you are looking for the definite answer as which one to choose, you will find fans for both of these CMS claiming their CMS the best one. Since there is no universal answer and clearly not easy decision to make, you should keep in mind that every business and website is unique and every situation requires different solutions. Joomla is the perfect choice for mid-sized websites, social networking or community oriented sites. Whereas Drupal is the logical solution for large, complex websites which needs extensive features and scalability. Decision Time Making a choice is definitely not an easy task. Well bear in mind the definition and purpose of your website, what is your complete budget and what is your own level of expertise or your Joomla / Drupal Web developer. We hope this guide will clear your head and make your decision be an easier one. Read here: Advantages Of Drupal Development PHP is extremely a popular language. Almost 82% websites use PHP which means that most of the site are made on PHP to at least some extent. With the increasing number of mobile users who relies on relatively slow 3g connections, it is necessary for the servers to powers the websites to load quickly on user requests. According to a study, 40% users abandons the web page if it takes more than 3 seconds to load. PHP 7 offers a 100% improvement in performance speed over its previous PHP 5.6 version. The reason to develop PHP 7 is to make scripting languages run more efficiently. Comparing to PHP 5.6, PHP 7 has reduced demands on servers, making it more cost-effective and an environment-friendly choice as less energy is required to power servers running PHP 7 applications. PHP 7 has gone through several months of beta testing and was finally released in the stable form on 3rd Dec 2015, promises with some real speed improvements and latest features in comparison to previous versions of this language. The PHP community embraces this new version of the scripting language because of the fast PHP performance. What’s New in PHP 7? Twice as fast as PHP 5, PHP 7 can surely compete with modern competitors such as Facebook’s Hip Hop Virtual Machine (HHVM). PHP 7 also offers fast performance to the Drupal users with the additional benefit of not using a virtual machine to execute the PHP code. One more key advantage of PHP 7 is that when it runs on Wordpress 4.1.1, it can execute twice as many requests per second as the same Wordpress platform running PHP 5.6. Developers should familiarize themselves with the technical changes appear in PHP 7 if they are intending to upgrade to PHP 7 for web development projects. Scalar Type Hints & Return Type: Developers like to declare a return type for the function or method. But by default, PHP 7 allows developers to declare what kind of return type function is expected to return a value. This means that now programmers can specify the type of variable that a function should return. In PHP 7, the return type is defined after closing parenthesis of the argument list. function f1(): array { return []; } This is an example of PHP 7 which declares the function “f1” that returns an array. Whereas, in PHP 5.6, programmers cannot specify the return type which makes it impossible for anyone reading the code that what the function “f1” is about. Declaring the return type makes the code much easier to read while debugging your own code or working on the code of someone else. Spaceship Operator: PHP 7 introduced a new operator called spaceship operator ( < = > )or combined comparison operator. This operator mostly used in sorting and combined comparison. It works like strcmp() or version_compare () Before PHP7: function order_func($a, $b) { return ($a < $b) ? -1 : (($a > $b) ? 1 : 0); } After PHP7: function order_func($a, $b) { return $a <=> $b; } This is one of the beautiful addition in this latest PHP version which can be used to quickly and conveniently compare two expressions. The operators can be used as follows: a < = > b f a is less than b, the expression output would be -1 If a is equal to b, the expression output would be 0 If a is greater than b, the expression output would be 1 Additional Features Apart from the above-mentioned changes, there are some other modifications added into PHP7. Here is the list. Error handling replaced with object oriented exceptions. This change will help developers to track and fix the bugs in their code. The syntax for the foreach statement has changed. No more comments in INI file. Instead of putting a # symbol with the comment, use “;” semi-colon. In PHP 5.6, the bug which makes the switch statement to have multiple default classes is now fixed. The list () operator doesn’t support string anymore. How to Migrate From PHP 5 to PHP 7? PHP 7 is the most significant update that has affected PHP in more than a decade. However, upgrading your existing code with PHP 7 might come with few challenges. But the reward would be much faster performance and less demand on the web servers. The things you need to make sure before switching to PHP 7 firstly make sure the libraries that the PHP project uses are available for PHP 7. If the libraries are supported by PHP 7 then you may need to hold off the upgrading for a while or check if it’s possible to remove the dependency on those libraries. If the code is written in PHP 5.5 or 5.6, then upgrading to PHP 7 will be real easy. However, if you are using PHP 4, then there will be some syntax changes you need to be aware of. For example, the constructor functions in PHP 4 are no longer supported in PHP7. While upgrading to PHP 7, ensures that your code includes unit and integration tests. These tests should identify any issues with your applications before they pop up as bugs on live screen. Conclusion. PHP 7 performances advantages mean that it is going to play a key role in the future of Web Development. Many popular websites developing platforms such as Wordpress allows its users to easily upgrade to the new PHP version to experience much better services. Read here: Top Questions to ask from a Professional PHP Development Company Some trends are popular for many reasons. They just work, easy to build, users are accustomed to them, flexible across many platforms and present the whole information in a more appealing and meaningful way. The term minimalism can be defined as cutting down all the unnecessary elements and just focus on what is more important to display on the screen. Basically, minimalism showcases the real purpose of your website. Though minimalism seems simple on the screen but requires a lot of time in the production and development practices to create a minimalistic piece. Let’s go through a list of some nice, clean and minimal web designs that really shines in 2017 and hoping that they will be around for many years to come. 1: Stay Consistent When it comes to creating a brand identity, a minimal brand mark can be incredibly useful. Keep your business logo super simple and the color palette very minimal, make it flexible enough to be used throughout the rest of the branding seamlessly, and helps in creating a consistent and a memorable brand. This bar branding sign above by Simon McWhinnie is an example of being consistent in your web design. 2: Discover Hidden Relationship Following minimalism in no way means that your design has to be any less creative. If you’re not trapped down in complex visuals, you often get a chance to explore and play with clever relationships hidden within your design. Take a look at the branding done by Interband for Opera Australia, a minimalist design to discover a clever relationship between the words. 3: Play with Native Relationship Minimalism allows considering the spatial relationship of the design in a way you might not have before. Do consider how your design interacts with other elements on the web page to create a wider design. Check out these above business cards designed by Trevor Finnegan as how their design interacts with other elements to create a wider design. 5: Stay Clever Minimalism isn’t about the lack of the illustrative elements, but instead of the careful choice of when and where to use them in your website design. Working on an illustrative element that directly relates to your brand name into a logo can help creating a very visual, and yet very minimal design. The above example by Frame Creative created a very visual yet minimal design by following the technique of being clever. 6: Embrace the Efficiency Minimalism is about skipping all the unnecessary things and only focusing on the website communication. Display the information neatly and efficiently, no crazy visuals required. See how Jake Frey displayed the information on his business card (above) neatly and efficiently with no crazy visuals required. 7: Be Functional Minimalism is just brilliant for functionality. A clean, clear and uncluttered design can make the navigation like a walk in the park. The minimal design and the clear typographical hierarchy makes the navigation of the contents page quick, easy and functional. The minimal design and typography done by JamesKape have made the navigation of the contents page quick, easy and functional. 8: Find Some Balance The relationship between visual elements like photographs and typography is important to get just right. A good design is the one in which no element overpowers another with no good reason. One key trick to follow, the simple photographs should be paired with large, attention-grabbing pull quotes, while the more textured and complicated images should be paired with a small piece of body copy creating a balanced harmony between each page. 9: White Space is Alright Space White space, aka as ‘negative space’, can sometimes look empty or blank space, but this is not entirely true! If use well, white space can help balance out your design, and help it breathe. The idea of white space results in a classy and minimal design. 10: Be Direct When there are less visual elements fighting to be seen, designers will able to be a lot more direct with the message conveyed and the overall communication. This can be useful when doing web designing, with a direct and plain message, helps give the viewer an idea of who you are straight away. Final Words Minimalism is the vital component to your web design as it has the potential to be timeless. The fewer elements your design possess, the less chance it may get to go out of style or trend. Let’s take a look on Google. The screenshots above are of 10 years ago and today’s homepage of Google. Despite the small change, the white space, the focus on the content, and the minimalism of the website keep the design relatively timeless. Minimalism is about the way of thinking about your design. Typographically, limit the use of fonts to create a more connected and less confusing design. In colors term, embrace monochromatic schemes but don’t be limited to them only. Overall, consider what can be removed, whether color from the palette or image from the composition. See what can be replaced with something more concise. Reduce them and just keep what is necessary. Magento is one of the most top-choice platforms for any e-commerce website development. It is considered as one of the leading e-commerce solutions for creating features full online stores. The features, modules, extensions, scalability and customization options make Magento an ideal and a suitable platform for building powerful and robust e-commerce store. But, choosing Magento for your eCommerce site will not take you anywhere, instead, you need to select the right Magento development company or Magento Developer who not only understands your business needs but also must possess enough experience to offer you the best Magento solution. To simplify things, I have listed down here some of the important key things you need to keep in mind before you hire any Magento development company. Experience Before appointing any Magento development company, do consider and check their previous work experience. Look at their previous projects they have worked on, the technical skills, professional capability and the ability of the Magento developers to execute a Magento project successfully. An experienced company can effectively handle the obstacles, troubles and technical challenges faced in between the development process. Portfolio Check the portfolio of the Magento development company you are approaching or deciding to select. By looking at their portfolio, one can get a fair idea about the working style and skills of the company’s developers. You can also get to know about the projects delivered by the company and their commitment towards work and how much dedicated they are. You can even refer to the testimonials of the clients, helping you decide whether the company is capable of executing and delivering the projects to clients’ satisfaction or not. Resources You need to do a full research before hiring that whether the company has skilled and talented resources or not. You should choose a Magento Development Company that ensures your Magento project is in the right hands. The company should consist of certified Magento developers with necessary experience. The developers should be aware of the latest tools of Magento and can work on the latest Magento versions. Pricing Policy Make a proper inquiry about the pricing or packages of the Magento Development Company you have chosen to work with. It is important to have a sound knowledge about the flexibility the Website Development Company will provide in any case of changes required. Also, do ask them whether they will charge for any additional work. The Magento Development Company you choose should give you a proper pricing policy to avoid confusions and misunderstandings. Quality Quality should be the first priority to you if you want to build a successful Ecommerce Magento store. Check out for companies who are CMMi certified or have ISO 9001 certification. Because they will definitely and surely will deliver high-quality Magento solutions, ensuring you the stability and consistency, and also the efficient processes. Communication Ensure that the company has a proper communication route with you. From the start of the project till the ending phase, one need to be in constant touch with the Magento development team. The project manager or lead who is managing your Magento store should be capable of understanding your requirements and listens to your suggestions for making improvements. The company should be using best communication channels for the continuous and uninterrupted flow of information. Don’t forget to check whether the developers have good communication skills especially when you choose to work with an offshore Magento development company. SEO Aspect Developing an SEO-friendly Magento online store has become a necessity to get recognized and mark a presence in the virtual world. The Magento developer or Magento Development Company, whoever you chooses, should know as for how to incorporate SEO techniques to help your Magento site get higher ranks in the search engines. Post Deployment Support Post deployment support is an important one, to ensure you the proper functioning of your online Magento store after making it live. Keep note of one thing that your customers won’t get affected because of any technical or functional issue arises on your Magento site. Post deployment support is important for improving the performance of any Magento site. Choose that Magento Development Company who provides on-going support and ensures you the 24/7 support whenever you need. Conclusion Building the Magento online store requires a vast technical expertise from the developers. In this highly competitive tech industry, one can’t afford to make or neglect mistakes which may lead to the failure of the online businesses. So it is necessary that your Magento Development Company or developer has the required experience and skills to deliver your desired results. Get in touch with our certified Magento developers here to get end-to-end Magento services including Magento extensions development and theme & template design. Started out as a simple e-commerce software in 2007.but over the years, Magento has become the de-facto standard of the e-commerce industry. Magento is available in three distinct but in independent flavors: Magento Community Edition, Magento Enterprise Edition, and Magento Enterprise Cloud Edition. Written completely in PHP, due to an important reason for the stability and robustness of this platform. The database supported by Magento are MySQL and MariaDB. The most attractive feature of Magento platform is the customization of almost every feature of the storefront and internal mechanics of the online store. Being only the PHP expert is not enough to become an effective Magento developer. While working with/on Magento, many professional experts find themselves out of their depth. Magento possesses a complicated structure that requires an expert understanding of PHP, MVC, and OOP to accomplish things for real-world online stores. The most important way of understanding the structure of Magento and improving the quality of your Magento store is to follow high-value resources. These resources shared down here includes the top-rated developers and blogs that regularly publish tutorials and educational material regarding Magento. Follow the Hashtags # The first and the easiest way is to follow the hashtags such as #magento, #magento2, and #realmagento. Social media brings up the freshest and latest articles/blogs published by the top rated resources. Instead of going through and scrolling down unwanted newsfeeds and timelines, just subscribe yourself to these hashtags on social media platform to get the latest news and tutorials as soon as they are published or released. Stack Overflow Stack Overflow is yet another great resource for Magento developers to learn about the new trends of Magento. The vast and huge volume of information on this platform enables the developers to decipher the solution of their Magento problems by reading and following the specific threads. The real power of Magento is its community people who contribute to the platform and its various components. Magento has a huge list of dedicated developers who regularly contribute to this platform. Magento Training Websites Magento development agencies and web development houses are now regularly publishing and updating people with articles and blogs which mainly focuses on the training of developers for Magento. Many professional experts are now preferring these resources because they are created and maintained by certified Magento developers who describes their points in an easy and understandable manner. Arpatech publishes high-quality Magento articles on its official blog page to tell you more about the latest updates of Magento. Official Magento DevDocs Magento DevDocs is a one-stop solution for you to get to know all the Magneto related guides and information. If you are in search of a customized Magento store, look towards DevDocs. Magento Community Forums Magento Community Forums, the official community for the Magento people. In this forum, you can get access to a wide network of dedicated Magento specialists sharing their tricks, tips, and all the support you may need. Magento Stack Exchange Magento StackExchange is the official Q/A forum for all the Magento users. Whatever question you have in mind or being bugged by, there will be many experts available in this forum to provide you the relevant answers. Corporate Magento Training Training is necessary, especially if you are a beginner. Join any Magento training platform start participating in different courses to give a kick-start your career growth now. Popular Magento Blogs Sharing down here the list of resourceful and popular Magento blogs to follow to stay updated about the latest Magento trends. Arpatech Magnetician Fooman MageStore Blog Magebase Mageworx Yireo MageComp Demac Media’s Blog FireBear Studio’s Blog Atwix’s Blog Don’t stop, keep reading If you are reading this line, well my friend, it means you have done a good job by reading the entire post. I, believe you surely have some favorites too of yours too. Don’t hide. Tell us in the common section below. Microsoft Asp.Net framework is used to develop web applications, dynamic websites, and web services. There are basically 6 frameworks introduced by Asp, which is 1.0, 1.1, 2.0, 3.5, 4.0 and among them, 4.5 is the current and latest version of Asp. Every framework comes with advanced classes, methods, and types so the programmers can produce unique things using the features of these frameworks. Let me guide you through all the basics of Asp.Net before we dive into building an application using Asp.Net About MVC MVC, a software architecture pattern, separates the development of application into three components namely Model, View & Controller. Let me tell you what they are about and what they actually do Model: Manages the entity definition, data access and business logic of the application View: Represents the UI, and where the user can see information provided by the model. Controller: Controls the interaction and communication between Model & View About C# C#, an object-oriented programming language, developed by Microsoft as a part of the .Net framework. About Razor Released by Microsoft for VS 2010 in January 2011, Razor Asp.Net programming syntax enables the programmers to write C# or Visual Basic code embedded in HTML page and used to create dynamic web pages. Get free quote from professional Asp.Net Developer about your project. About Visual Studio Visual Studio is an IDE (Integrated Development Environment) used to create windows form applications, websites, web applications and web services. It supports a variety of programming languages including C#, C++, Python and Ruby. Let’s start building Web Application Using Asp.Net So we now know about these software development technologies, let’s create your first web application. 1- Open Visual Studio 2012, go to "File/New" menu and click on "Project". A window like below will open 2- In this window, select within the Visual C# options, ASP.NET MVC 3 Web Application. 3- Then in the next window, select the template “Empty”, and “Razor” as View engine, and then click Ok. You can now see web application project created with the required folders Models, Views & Controllers also the reference, app data, scripts and other files. 4- Right-click on the folder “Controllers” and "Add/Controller” and you’ll see a window, enter the name of your controller. For e.g. “Index”, and for the template option, leave Empty Controller. Don’t remove the suffix “Controller” in the controller name because it’s showing that this one is a controller class. 5- Now, right-click on the folder “Models” and select Add/Class. Name this class as you like because this will be the Entity to show in the View. We name it “IndexModel” (the name doesn’t have to include the word “index”). Then, add some properties to the class. For example add ID, Description and Comments properties. using System; using System.Collections.Generic; using System.Linq; using System.Web; namespace MyMvcApplication.Models { public class IndexModel { public int ID { get; set; } public string Description { get; set; } public string Comments { get; set; } } } 6- Right-click on the folder “Views” and create a new folder named “Index” (as the controller). Then right-click on that folder and select Add/View. Name the view as “Index” also and as a result, we’ll have a new “Index. cshtml”. 7- Now we have added Model, View, and Controller. Let’s add some code to the controller which will be like this. 8-Now add some code to the view which will look like this. 9- Run the Project on any internet browser, and make sure you add to the URL the action “Index”. That’s it! You have built the first MVC Application with ASP.NET, using C# and Razor. It’s is the most basic and simple way in order to learn and create your very first web application using Asp.Net with Razor syntax. Hope it helps you in understanding the easiest way to develop Asp.Net Web Application. If you asked to describe PHP in one word, it would be ubiquitous. Means it’s everywhere. And so are the PHP people, who develop with it. So how can you find an expert PHP developer among all those who claim to “know” the language? This blog here will give you the answer. PHP is used in more than 80 percent of the websites and applications as a server side language. It is used in more than 80 percent of all the web projects, and with PHP 7 just around the corner, it is only going to rule the web world. Finding an average PHP developer is not that much difficult. However, mastering this language requires a lot of time and effort, and if it’s the professional few you’re looking for, you will definitely need to design a flawless interview process. Writing down interview questions, it's difficult to maintain a balance: you want to test your candidates’ problem-solving and error-resolving ability, but not torture them with a long list of boring, irrelevant questions and potentially drive them away. Here are some ways to follow while hiring the right PHP Developers. 1: Ask Basics Questions: While you don’t want to irritate your candidates with a standard interview routine, asking one or two basic questions form them won’t hurt anyone. You need to ensure that the candidate must have a good understanding of PHP and how it’s used in the development process. Get free quote from professional PHP Development Company about your project. 2: Ask Specific Questions: Some of those specific questions will largely depend on the kind of knowledge and skills your project requires. Write down the list of sample PHP interview questions which will help to evaluate the candidate’s expertise. The list should contain server-side, database, and client-side related topics. 3: Ask About their Past Projects: It’s important to know what they did on their past projects. However, the project may seem very impressive, but the part they played in them might not be. Ask them their contributions in the project. Keep in mind that they could have worked under NDA, so if their answers sound little fuzzy, it doesn’t mean you should drop them from the list of your potential hires immediately. 4: Ask them some Non-Technical Queries: Developers sometimes need to explain things to other developers and non-developers the same, and making them talk about something they find interesting can tell you a whole lot about how they communicate, which is no less important than their PHP skills. 5: Check the Candidate Code: There are few ways to check their coding style. You can use coding tests available online, but ensure that they are real world coding challenges and not some standard “textbook” problems. And in the alternate, you can take their small trial. Do remember, it’s not the final code that matters here. You just want to check how your candidate does the task and get the opportunity to review their work before handing them your precious project. Wrapping Up You'll come across many who claim to be the “experts” of PHP, but that doesn’t necessarily mean they’re a good fit for your project. So make sure you know very clearly what skill set you would like your PHP programmer to possess, what frameworks you are planning to use, and what exactly the ultimate goal of your project is. Use these as guidelines, and, hopefully, hiring the right PHP developers to build your web application will become a little easier. In this digital world, no business can survive without websites or applications. Every business owner is well aware of the importance of moving their businesses to the online world. With the rapid increase in the online businesses, many programming languages and platforms are emerging to help to build a website or applications. Among them all, PHP is the widely-used platforms because of its great benefits and advantages. PHP is open source, free, flexible, easy to integrate, scalable, object-oriented, simple and easy to learn. PHP operates more quickly than any other languages. PHP has a variety of frameworks to work on with great features. Developing your PHP website or building PHP applications on your own can be a risky task to attempt. Instead, it would be wise to let professionals develop your PHP websites or apps. With the increasing demand for PHP development services, more PHP web development companies are emerging. However, before hiring development firm to create your PHP web or app you first must do some research to choose the best web development and design firm. After all, the success of your business resides on your virtual appearance. So, it is necessary to select your PHP development company carefully. I will tell you here some questions to ask before hiring any professional PHP Development Company if they are good enough for your company or not. Let’s take a look on some of the most important questions. Ask about their experience. How old their company is? What projects have they done? Their staff capacity and which industry they cater? Ask about their expertise. Their PHP developers’ skills, experience, and qualification? What tools and technology they use and will they upgrade the PHP software according to the latest version? Which framework they use and what will be their delivery models? What is their communication mode? Will their developer or project manager be available for any assistance? Ask for them to show their brief portfolio and previous work was done? Provide them with the details for the targeted audience like age group, region, qualification, interests, industry etc. Tell them the nature of your business and what is your plan to achieve through your web development project. Who are your industry competitors and how will they help you stand out among them? Do you have any theme, style, functionalities in your mind or want the web development company to come up with some outstanding ideas? Are you revamping your existing site? If yes then how will they re-create it? Or do you want to develop it from scratch? Where your website will be hosted and will you have the full access to the c-panel and FTP logins? Will they outsource any other developer for your PHP website? How much is your budget and what are their packages? Do they have the right server with enough space, bandwidth, databases etc. capable enough to provide the necessary infrastructure to the website you intend to build? Will you provide them the content for your PHP site or would like to get their content services? What will be the expected timeline for your PHP web project? Do you need a fluid-width website or fixed-width website front end development? Which CMS you need and which e-commerce shopping cart and with what kind of payment mode? Is blogging necessarily for my website? Will they make responsive PHP website which is optimized for mobile devices? Do they give on-going SEO services? Do you want to use any of your keywords to high rank your website in search engines? There’s more Apart from all these necessary questions, there are some other important details to ask like payment, post-development support, and security. These questions will surely help you in the filtering process for selecting any offshore PHP Development Company. Read Here: Why You Should Migrate From PHP 5 to PHP 7 Drupal, among all the website building platform, gives the best security to your website. Big brands and business websites like the White House, French Government, New Zealand Government, British Council, and the Embassy of the UAE in Washington are all built with Drupal. The owners of these big websites trust Drupal and feel safe. There must be good reasons for that! Let’s dive into the details and read out some prominent features that make Drupal secure. If you are planning to create a Drupal website, or already have one, then you are welcome to read about these Drupal website Security benefits and some tips as how to utilize them in the proper way. Drupal Website Security The Drupal Security Team is always available The Drupal own security team includes a team of expert professionals from across the globe. They continuously analyze Drupal core and modules, view security reports, respond to the security issues arises, cooperate with the module maintainers, prepare and release fixes. Anyone can contact them to report for errors or get assistance. Get Free Quote and Avail Drupal Development Services. Continuous core and module updates Drupal core and contributed modules are constantly updated to provide the high level of functionality and security for your website. Make sure to run the recommended core and module updates for your Drupal website. Old modules should be removed instantly. In terms of security for custom code, ensures it is written well and accordingly to the Drupal coding standards. If your site is running on Drupal 6 or on any previous version, do upgrade them to Drupal 7 or Drupal 8 which are now the only two latest versions supported by the Drupal community and, get regular security updates for better performance. A convenient user role and permission system Drupal offers flexible and convenient options for granting permissions to the website’s users or groups of users. Be very sure who you are granting the access to your website. Pay special attention to the roles that are allowed to run PHP code on your Drupal site. It is a safe idea to remove PHP input filter from your Drupal site. Good news, in Drupal 8, it is no longer even available. Data encryption In Drupal, passwords are encrypted with multiple parameters (length, expiration, complexity etc.). Also, a strong database encryption can be configured, with a variety of options to protect the specific information. Make use of it to get advanced security for your website. Limited login attempts Drupal helps prevent from intrusions by limiting the number of login attempts from the same IP address for a particular period of time. You can also keep track of all these login attempts through the administrative interface. Form API The purpose of Form API is to clean and validate the data before submitting into the database. It tests the data entered by users to match the specific formats and parameters. The End Drupal is the most secure, open CMS platform. Follow these Drupal security guidelines and prevent your Drupal site from cyber attacks. ASP.Net, an open source, server-side web application framework, introduced by Microsoft to create dynamic web pages. The framework is designed to help programmers in developing dynamic websites, web applications, and web services. History ASP.Net first version i-e ASP.Net 1.0, was released in January 2002. ASP.Net is built on CLR (Common Language Runtime), let programmers write ASP.Net code with any .net supported languages such as C#, J#, JScript and Visual Basic .net. With ASP.Net you can create more interactive and data-driven web applications. ASP consists a variety of control like text boxes, buttons, and labels for assembling, configuring, and manipulating the code to create HTML pages. Microsoft ASP.Net 4.5 Microsoft ASP.Net is one of the most successful application development frameworks. The latest and the newest version of this framework is 4.5. ASP.Net is quick to develop and deploy highly scalable and fast performance web applications in a managed environment. Here in this article, I am to going to discuss the top 10 features of ASP.Net 4.5 for the developers. Get free quote from professional Asp.Net Development Company about your project. 1: Bundling & Minification Feature The bundling and minification feature in ASP.Net 4.5 will bundle and minimize the size of the scripts and style sheets used in your application. The feature is a great addition in the performance of any web application. The namespace System.Web.Optimization provides the support for bundling and minification of files. When you create a new project in ASP.Net 4.5, these below lines will appear in your Global.aspx file. protected void Application_Start() { //Some code BundleTable.Bundles.RegisterTemplateBundles(); } 2: Strongly Typed Data Controls ASP.Net 4.5 have strongly typed data controls. It gives intellisense, just assign the ItemType property to a model which is going to be associated with the data controls used in the aspx pages. Below mentioned code will illustrate how to use Strongly Typed Data Control feature: <asp:TemplateField HeaderText="Name" > <ItemTemplate> <%# Item.Name.ToString() %> </ItemTemplate> </asp:TemplateField> The below code is a complete markup code of the Grid view control which uses Strong typing: <asp:GridView ID="GridView1" runat="server" AutoGenerateColumns="false" ModelType="Payroll"> <Columns> <asp:TemplateField HeaderText="FirstName"> <ItemTemplate> <asp:Label ID="lblFirstName" runat="server" Text='<%# Item.FirstName %>'></asp:Label> </ItemTemplate> </asp:TemplateField> <asp:TemplateField HeaderText="LastName"> <ItemTemplate> <asp:Label ID="lblLastName" runat="server" Text='<%# Item.LastName %>'></asp:Label> </ItemTemplate> </asp:TemplateField> </Columns> </asp:GridView> 3: Model Binding ASP.Net 4.5 Model Binding feature allows to develop Web forms which are independent of the model that populates the view. The biggest advantage of ASP.Net 4.5 Model Binding is you can easily unit test the methods. Model Binding in ASP.Net 4.5 is supported through the namespace “System.Web.ModelBinding”. The namespace has value provider classes like ControlAttribute, QueryStringAttribute etc. All these mentioned classes are inherited from the ValueProviderSourceAttribute class. 4: Value Providers ASP.Net 4.5 offers many Value Providers which can be used to filter the data. Here are some: Querystring Session Cookie Control Value 5: Support for OpenID in OAuth Logins ASP.Net 4.5 gives the support for OpenID for OAuth logins. One can easily use external services to login into the application. Like ASP.Net MVC 4, ASP.Net 4.5 also allows you to register OAuth provider in the App_Start/AuthConfig.cs file. This data dictionary is also can be used to pass additional data. 6: Support for improved paging in ASP.NET 4.5 GridView control Paging support in ASP.Net 4.5 GridView control is improved a lot in this version. ASP.Net 4.5 GridView.AllowCustomPaging property gives great support for paging and sorting through the large amounts of data more efficiently. 7: Advanced Support for Asynchronous Programming ASP.Net 4.5 gives excellent support in asynchronous programming. Now you can read and write HTTP requests and responses without the requirement of OS threads. Also, now you have the support of two new keywords await and async. 8: Support for Web Sockets HTML5 web sockets allows to perform duplex communication between the client browser and the web server. ASP.Net 4.5 offers the support for the web socket protocols. Now you can leverage WebSockets in the ASP.Net web applications. The namespace which supports the WebSocket is System.Net.WebSocket. 9: Support for HTML5 Form Types ASP.Net gives excellent support for HTML5 form types. The below following list are the new controls available in HTML5. Email URL Number Range Date pickers like date, month, week, time Search Color 10: ASP.Net Web API ASP.Net Web API is included in ASP.Net MVC 4 and ASP.Net Web Forms. This new feature will help you to build and consume HTTP services easily. Summary Microsoft ASP.Net is the most successful web technologies till date. It has matured over the past few years and its latest version is ASP.Net 4.5 with amazing new features and advancements. The very first thing which grabs your attention while navigating any website is its appearance. In this tough, competitive world of technology, your website should look beautiful, functional and easy to use. Drupal offers lots of themes which ensures the beauty of your website as well as provides you a streamlined experience to your visitors. Drupal themes are available in both free and paid flavors. The themes are real easy to install and can be configured in few simple steps. Right now, Drupal 8 has fewer themes than Drupal 7. But this doesn’t mean that Drupal 8 themes lack in any way. The wide library of Drupal themes consists a variety of themes for every website type. In this blog, I’m going to share some of the best free Drupal 8 themes to make use of. Premium Drupal 8 Themes Marketplace D8: Responsive Ecommerce Theme E-commerce is no doubt one of the most important areas of any CMS. This excellent Drupal 8 eCommerce theme by Weebpal makes the most of the Drupal’s support for that purpose. Now make your online marketplace more attractive, appealing and functional with the Marketplace D8 theme. Forumplus D8: Got any forum or website to run which has an integrated forum? After a detailed thorough search, I came across to this amazing Forum plus Drupal 8 theme (again by Weebpal) especially for forums which really makes your website stand out from the crowd. News+ Theme for Drupal: Offered by morethanthemes.com, has all the desired features you would like to feature on your news website. Enhance the beauty of your news website by installing this excellent News+ theme of Drupal, an all-in-one responsive theme. Scholarly Some renewed universities such as McGill University, University of King’s College, and Queen’s University has chosen Drupal Scholarly theme for creating their websites. So if you want to create an educational website too, don’t go anywhere and choose Drupal Scholarly theme, a powerful combination on theme and CMS. Onpage D8 Onpage Drupal 8 theme is one of the great multipurpose and a responsive theme suitable for all kinds of websites. This theme smoothens the flow and structure of websites and helps a lot to the visitor of your website in locating any specific section of your website. Get Free Quote and Avail Drupal Development Services. Free Drupal 8 Themes Personal Blog Theme for Drupal 8 This free Personal Drupal Blog theme is no doubt a beautiful one and functional too, helping you to give a kick-start to your blogging. This is indeed a beautiful theme with all the desired functionalities in just zero cost. Zircon Zircon Drupal 8 theme is a simple, responsive Drupal 8 theme, suits perfectly for a business or a personal website. Clean Corporate Theme A corporate website never requires for fancy artworks or decorative elements. Corporate websites are simple and display all the relevant information of the organization/company or business and the products/services being offered. Choose this Clean Corporate theme for your Drupal 8 corporate website. Drupal 8 Zymphonies Theme Zymphonies is one of the free, responsive Drupal 8 theme, suitable for all kinds of websites and screen sizes. Bootstrap Business Drupal 8 Bootstrap business theme is one of the best business / corporate themes which uses the bootstrap framework to adjust your website automatically on different screen sizes without any extra coding or effort. Conclusion Drupal 8 offers a variety of themes which ensures you that your website looks beautiful and offer seamless functionalities to your visitors. I have shared above several free and premium themes which are ideal for your websites and if you think I have missed out any, then do let me know in the comment section below. Drupal is one of the top CMS because of it’s uniqueness and flexibility. Along with the cores, the large collection of Drupal modules is the backbone of the Drupal system. Take examples of some popular Drupal sites, can you find any of them which don’t use even one extending module? Needless to say, they are mandatory. These modules give you the ability to enhance and advance the Drupal functions, features, and grant you the power to do many incredible tasks with your Drupal site. If you run a Google search, you’ll find some top Drupal modules and their specific functionalities. Similarly, in this blog, I will tell you Drupal module options. They are among the top favorite choices of Drupal developers. Let’s get down for the details Views: Views are undoubtedly the most popular Drupal module and also a vital one. Views Display the content more easily. It provides you the facility to show every field (content, taxonomy, terms, users,...) through any type of display. Such as, you can create and display an image, a list of products, a jCarousel, Slideshow,... on your website with it. PathAuto: Pathauto allows the user to define a pattern for data, and contents so that the system can create an automatic URL. This is an essential module for a Drupal website with a wide variety new contents. Administration Menu: Administration module is a valuable one for website administrators and developers. With this module, you can navigate to the admin menu easily through the smart menu bar on the top. This no doubt saves time while working on the website development. Date: The Drupal Date module helps in creating a date field type in the Drupal system. It is very helpful especially when you want to create chronological contents, calendar,... Web Form: Create a contact form, an event registration, surveys, applications, with none other than Drupal Webform module. Media: Drupal media module helps in managing the documents, audio & video files. It is liked by many Drupal developers because Drupal core is harder to handle with files & multimedia. Context: The Context Drupal module permits displaying different elements, or contents on the site based on conditions. Like, if you want some blocks to show up at the bottom of the homepage, and change them differently on the products page. WYSIWYG: Wysiwyg doesn’t work by itself, instead, it is a tool allowing you to add content editors. Which means you can edit and work with the content fairly easily and more conveniently. Views SlideShow: As the name sounds, this Drupal module is used to generate slideshow with Views. Creating slideshow has never been easy before this. Ubercart: For a shopping or an e-commerce site, this is an awesome tool. Lots of Drupal websites use this Ubercart module, as it gives tremendous supported in everything from shopping flow to the shopping cart, from promotion to the payment. Custom Breadcrumb: To give easy navigation, this custom breadcrumb module gets your breadcrumb path shown on the site. It can be integrated with Views, Panels, Taxonomy Vocabularies and Terms, Paths. Gmap: Drupal Gmap module helps to locate your location on Google map. This module is very useful if you want to show your company’s visual address; a property on a real estate website; a restaurant on a deal site. If don’t like the current display, you can even customize the map according to the purpose. Meta Tag Quicks: The Meta Tags Quicks module adds meta tags such as title, descriptions, robots to get your page optimized on the search engine. This is a must-have module for Search Engine Optimization. Internationalization: Internationalization module is a great extension to the core multilingual Drupal. This allows publishing a multilingual website and translates nearly everything on a Drupal website. Bean: Bean module transform the core Blog into a dynamic entity - node, vocabulary, users,... making it easy for you to add multiple fields for your Blog content. You’ll find this module the most valuable one if you use Blog regularly. So, this is our complete list, well not totally complete. There are some others modules too out there which I haven’t mentioned. I think the top 15 modules makes a long enough list. Want to make any recommendation on the list? Feel free to share by leaving a comment below. A few years back, there was a time when programming was considered as the geekiest thing ever. But that’s not exactly the case for today. Nowadays everyone holds a certain level of potential, the chance to learn and even can master programming languages easily. So, if you are new to the world of programming, coding and web development, then it does make sense to start teaching yourself by utilizing all the free resources available online. Forget about all the complicated setups and cold command prompts and say hello to these 4 online places for instant and interactive lessons to teach you the programming languages, website and app development, tips and even best practices of the industry top professionals. To make learning easier, I have gathered here top 4 resources for you to learn the code free online. Let’s kick-start the path into programming and coding today. CodeAcademy Codeacademy is no doubt a famous learning source to teach you to code interactively. All thanks to codeacademy’s helpful interface and well-structured courses. Opening the main page, you can already start seeing and tasting the programming right away with its attractive on-screen console. Pick any of the courses that Codeacademy offers which includes Web development, PHP, Javascript, JQuery, Python, Ruby and APIs. In every lesson that codeacademy gives contains a panel that explains necessary code and interaction. Another advantage of the panel is that it allows you to write acceptable code and then it checks if you are doing right or not. Not to worry about the mistakes you make while coding as both the instructions and code panel will warn you about the errors and will give you hint to solve. Learning with codeacademy will make you feel like as if there’s a teacher sitting right beside you. Khan Academy Khan Academy, although not structured like other resources, but it does offer an open playground for everyone, particularly who are interested in learning drawing, animation and user-interaction with code. It doesn’t offer any specific programming language to learn, but the coding technique can be applied anywhere since all the languages share the same programming pattern. First, join the basic programming courses to learn and understand the basic concepts and then discover the code to after the video tutorial to clear the doubts. With the Khan Academy tutorial, save your modification as a spin-off to enjoy and customize. There are hundreds of spin-off from one lesson in one course, so you can imagine well the community size of Khan Academy . SQLZOO SQL is the language designed to save and retrieve the data from the databases. Learning with SQLZOO will kill the boredom for you to learn SQL happily with its interactive interface and smileys. There is nothing really deep or impossible to learn or explain this straightforward language, the site will make you learn how to replace the variables and some more advanced queries. One biggest drawback about this tutorial is the shortage of hints, answers, and forum, so you can probably get lost if you are failing to answer any of the quizzes. Code School Once you are done with your basic learning and wants to expand your skills and capabilities, Code School is the best place to learn from. Unlike other interactive sites, Code Schools give you an in-depth learning and training to make you an expert with the help of industry’s best practices. The courses offered in CodeSchool are categorized in 4 main parts which are: Ruby JavScript iOS Html/CSS Most of the courses offered are free and few of them are about $25/month for the entire course. Good Luck Missed any or know any other resources better than those above one, then do let us know in the comment below. Also share your experience about these resources as well. Food delivery apps are a new rage. They function as a platform for collaboration between restaurants and customers. More and more food-based startups are in need of food delivery apps today. Not only for the purpose of creating an app for your own sake, the mobile app sector is currently a massive revenue-giving area and food start-ups are all increasing daily with each of them requiring at least one app for a single platform with most of them targeting various platforms such as Android, iOS, Windows and more. Here, we will provide you a complete guide on food delivery app development with all the details of food delivery apps. What to consider while building android food delivery app There are so many things you need to do before you begin developing food delivery apps. You should keep track of a lot of stuff from the instruction set to the procedure. The development of the food ordering android app includes a lot of measures that must be performed perfectly. The method can be tough and tricky if you start from scratch. But developing an app from scratch will actually help you create the app you want for the restaurant. With the interface you want, you can develop a fully personalized app. The good news here is that you don't have to fight a lot when you're creating an app. The app's basics and fundamentals are similar, and you just need to take some basic stuff into account when building the app. Below are the steps that will guide you on how to build a food ordering mobile app for your restaurant: It's always safe to start small. It's always a fool play to just jump into the app-building without any prior knowledge. Begin with offering your services to the location where your restaurant is. Check how people respond to the food delivery app and ask them for feedback to improve. Deploy a marketing campaign to get your food delivery app into the customers. If you want to shine bright it is advised to hire the best app development company with tremendous experience in app development and cater completely to your needs. A successful app development company plays a significant role in creating a mobile restaurant ordering app. Discuss your requirements and suggestions with the restaurant app builder. Make a suitable budget for the development of your food delivery app and marketing campaign. Marketing products and services are essential for any business so that maximum customers get to know about your services. Promotions are vital even before you release a mobile app's beta version. Start interacting with your potential customers across different social media platforms and make sure that every customer who visits your restaurant app android knows about your food delivery app. Start taking customer feedback. It plays a big role in the success of your app. Take feedback constructively and make sure you improve your app and services depending on those reviews. Hire a team of competent delivery boys/girls that add value to your business. The delivery team plays a vital role in food delivery applications. Pick the Right App Development Pricing Model You must be confused about choosing a fixed price or hourly rate to pay developers. You can employ the finest mobile app development company that can make your dream come true. Certainly, pricing is the primary thing to decide before continuing with stuff as far as food delivery applications are concerned. Any restaurant android app development cost will greatly depend on the specifications it has. Also, development partner will also impact your mobile application development costs. These are the variables that influence pricing while creating a mobile app. Here are the significant factors that influence the price of developing mobile apps. You have to keep these points in mind while building a mobile application. Device and the Operating System Developing an app for a particular operating system will lower the cost. The app-building system Bring Your Own Device (BYOD) will greatly impact pricing. You have to develop an app that operates perfectly across different operating systems and consumes a fortune. Native or Web app This is one of the main constraints. The native app is OS-centric and costs a little bit more but offers incredible customer experience. While the web app is accessible at a cheaper price, the user experience is not as pleasant as the native app. You can first opt for a web app and then switch to the native one if you're on a tight budget. User Authorization There are some applications that require user authentication or authorization. Such applications will cost a little more than the usual amount. It relies entirely on your requirement to go with such apps or not. App Distribution Official distribution channels like the Google Play store will charge $100 as the price of licensing developers. You have to be prepared to pay that amount because it's something you can't avoid. Before deploying it, the hosting company will check whether the applications fulfill all the demands or not. Add-ons like integration with social media applications, buying in-app will cost you a little more. Define Your Target Audience Although, nowadays apps are used by majority 9of the people since everyone loves doing everything while staying in their comfort zones but usually, apps usage is seen among individuals having a busy lifestyle. Whether they are professionals, students, working-class. So keep them as your primary target. It is always smart to do your research first. So, before you set out to make your product, study your competitors, check on their weaknesses. Also, observe what makes their apps a success. But remember, food delivery applications are not about being copycats, but rather about innovating. Do research beforehand so that you don’t have to make any modifications later on. See their features, the services they provide, and what makes them different from others when it comes to designing food apps. For example, if you are looking for a sample business plan for tiffin services, you need to understand the magnitude of the online food ordering system project. Features of a Good Food Delivery App People who order from delivery apps look to be in their comfort zone, so your app requires to be easy to navigate and easy to customize according to user needs. A sleek design and an introductory tour that can help people find their way the first time around for your food apps helps. We have listed some of the primary features for your food app development experts that you should remember to include other than those you already have in your mind. Order Placement with Custom Search Tool This method should be fast and straightforward. Moreover, the app should provide an opportunity to specify any meal's content. People may have distinct food preferences and intolerances, so offer them the possibility to customize a meal. A list of search categories and customization options will make the ordering process much more convenient. Geolocation A helpful function for both the customer and the delivery staff. It enables clients to find neighboring restaurants and at the same time makes the logistics system clearer for carriers. Tracking Option Every customer likes to monitor the delivery process, so you need to provide this choice. Moreover, such data is also helpful for restaurants as it helps them evaluate the preparation process. Payment Choices Keep in mind that people want to have preferences for payment systems as well, so your app has to provide several alternatives (internet payment options or cash on delivery, etc.). Feedback Customers must be able to write a review on a restaurant or meal. It encourages you to discover weak points in your services. Notifications Another important feature of any successful app. Inform your customers about their order status, inform them about discounts, and remind them to order a meal if they're busy. Social Media Integration People like to share their experiences with others, so offer them the ability to do so. In return, you will gain more popularity and increase your audience. Offer Rewards Incentives such as loyalty schemes, discounts and coupons will bring more customers to your business. Cross-Interface Options This is important for restaurant executives and couriers both. The app should provide a feature to manage orders, update information and interact with other stakeholders. Order History Any person should be able to check prior orders. Here the reorder choice can be very useful. At the same time, restaurants must have access to order history as it is important information for analytics. We’ve described some of the most important features for a food delivery app. Your food delivery app may also have some other features or functionalities which will make it exclusive. PHP is the most popular programming language and is being widely used for rapid development of dynamic websites. Web servers are publically accessible, so they possess possible security vulnerabilities. PHP is a stable and almost an inexpensive web application platform. Like other web-based platforms, PHP is unsafe from external attacks too. For this, developers, database architects, and system administrators should take measurable precautions before deploying any PHP applications to a live server. These security techniques can get done with a few lines of code or some little adjustment to your application settings. In this blog here, I have described in detail some of the most common vulnerability found in PHP web applications along with suggestions as for how they can be managed and prevented. SQL Injection SQL injection is the most common hacking type and specifically targets the database-driven websites or web applications which link or interacts with databases. The SQL injection is a type of code injection, where attackers make full use of the vulnerabilities in the website security measures to send special SQL queries to the database which can modify it and tables within it or delete the whole database. Get free quote from professional PHP Development Company about your project. This type of attack occurs when the developers fail to check data validation functionality in those areas of the website where the data from external sources can be inserted into the website. The attacker can easily add their own SQL statements in unprotected SQL queries which utilize data submitted by the user to check for something in the database. For example: An unprotected statement would be something like this 1 $query = “SELECT * FROM users WHERE username = ‘niki’”; An SQL injection query will result in the following attempt: 1 $query = “SELECT * FROM users WHERE username = ” or ’1=1′”; The result generated here will be true, and thus the content of entire table users would be displayed. [related_posts] In the SQL injection, attackers gains access to all the information in the database such as passwords, usernames, emails, and some other sensitive information. How to prevent it? The data should be validated, verified and cleaned up before entering it into the application All the confidential information like passwords must be encrypted using SHA1 or SHA; Technical information has technical details which can disclose security vulnerabilities to an attacker; so for safety purpose, it should be removed from error messages; An attacker looks for error messages to hack information like database names, usernames and table names, therefore, disable error messages or create your own custom error messages; Limits the permissions granted on the database, since, fewer permissions will result in fewer chances of hacking attack; Use stored procedures and previously defined cursors to abstract data access so the users cannot directly access tables or views; Avoid using words such as ‘insert’, ‘update’, ‘drop’, and ‘union’ from being added to the database, as these all being words can alter tables and databases. Remote File Inclusion and Remote Code Execution The violation of this security measure will allow malicious or even unknown third party to run any code on the web server or on the client side and can even lead to other hacking attempts. Remote file inclusion caused by a website susceptibility which lets the hackers to deploy malicious file on the web server. This can happen because of improper use of require() and include() functions if the register_globals directive, is ON, allowing the user to initialize variables remotely. These remote variables can be used to include malicious or unwanted files from remote locations, and if the allow_url_fopen is enabled in php.ini, then remote files can also be uploaded to the site’s server via FTP or HTTP from any remote location. How to prevent it? Turn OFF the register_globals directive. Luckily, in advanced versions of PHP, it is by default OFF. If you want the directive to be ON for some reason, make sure all variables are properly initialized. There are some other PHP directives which can be used to avoid this security breach, which includes: allow_url_fopen (by default turned on) which controls whether to include remote files and should be turned OFF and allow_url_include (by default turned off) which controls whether include_once(), include(), require() and require_once() commands are able to include remote files into the code. Enabling safe_mode which tests user ID permissions before opening any file. Always validate user input and be careful with the data retrieved from remote servers or locations. To stop it, first, ensures that all files included are locally hosted and don’t ever accept files just like that unless necessary. Restrict user permissions to help you stay protected from this security threat. Cross Side Scripting (XSS) Cross Site Scripting is one of the most common forms of hacking Hackers use a legitimate site’s vulnerability to forcefully makes the site to do certain things. In XSS, the hacker infects a web page with the malicious client-side script and whenever a user visits that page, the script gets downloaded into the attacker’s browser and executed. The pattern of XSS attack is depicted in the diagram below: How to prevent it? To stay protected from XSS, use escape functions, specially escape characters which comprises of HTML and JavaScript syntax like ‘>’ and ‘<’ or convert these into HTML entities, (for example, < would become this < ). Sites like forums, where users posts HTML links, an alternative syntax like bbcodes (this is so common on forums) and can be used in order to overcome the escaping of HTML characters. The htmlspecialchars () function identifies any output you do not want as a HTML output and converts it into plain HTML entities, for example: ‘&’ becomes ‘&’ and ‘”‘ (double quote) becomes ‘"’; Do always check and test the website before launching it. Session & Cookie Hacking The session and cookie hacking can’t violate the database or the web application itself, but it can affect user accounts. A session is an entity triggered when users establishes contact with any web server and consists of some period of interaction between users and web application which may be authenticated using security measures like a username and password. In all this session, the web application stores a cookie or file on the user's’ browser, which contains information about the session such as users’ preferences, authentication data, unique codes or shopping cart information and more. How to prevent it? To prevent hackers from setting session ID’s prior to login, ID’s must change after sometime, therefore, the session_regenerate_id() function must be used every time the user logs in, assigning them a fresh ID The risk can be minimized by revalidating a user who is going to perform important or sensitive tasks like resetting the passwords . If the user password is stored in a session variable, it should be encrypted by using the sha1() function. If the web application contains sensitive information like debit and credit card numbers, then using an SSL or any other secured connection to avoid session and cookie hacking Directory / Path Traversal Directory aka Path traversal is a method of destroying web applications by accessing the files from the document root directory which allows attackers to view restricted files and interact with the web server by executing commands. This hacking attacks happens from the browser and get done by entering URL into the address bar which helps to let out of the root directory and into the main server directories. This attack can also be done through input portals on the front end of the web application. How to prevent it? Validate and clean all the user input and remove all the suspicious data and filter out metacharacters; Don’t ever store sensitive configuration files inside the web root. If a suspect request any file to made, build the full file-path and all the characters in the path should be normalized (e.g. change %20 to spaces); Careful programming on the web-server should be done. Make use of security software, patches and vulnerability scanners. Security is an important phase in all the process. In this blog, I have mentioned here the top five PHP security measures to follow. Still got questions or need more information? Do comment below. Moodle, aka Modular Object-Oriented Dynamic Learning Environment, an open-source platform which lets you create interactive, collaborative content and online courses through Learning Management System (LMS) or Virtual Learning Environment (VLE). Deploying any Moodle website can be very profitable. Moodle website owners can make the most out of their Modular architecture and can implement plenty of functional modules/extensions on the site to make the educational interface more attractive, interesting and engaging. However, you might feel sometimes the decrease of your Moodle’s website load time and performance. With too many extensions installed on your Moodle site or being shrink on your Moodle hosting plan, can also give your Moodle website users a hard time. Since nothing can spoil the name and reputation of a website than its low speed and functionality. I am going to share down here few tricks to optimize and speed up your Moodle website. 1: The Basic Tweaks Before taking any further step towards optimization techniques, it is necessary for you to understand and consider first some of the basic things which can cause or make your Moodle website slow. 2: Get a Managed Moodle Cloud Hosting Discover first whether the hosting plan you are on suits your website or not. If you are using shared hosting then obviously it’s the root cause for your Moodle website to function slowly and makes it more delicate for security threats as well. Get Managed Moodle Cloud Hosting for better and adequate resources and security. 3: Baseline Monitoring If using in-house servers then do monitor the components of the system which are the baseline of your Moodle site. For Linux Operating System, try LBS and for Windows Monitoring System, use performance monitor. Once you are done gathering the information about your system performance, you can now improve the performance and speed of your Moodle website by making changing in system components such as RAM, caching or Disk Space. 4: Operating System Moodle runs on limited operating systems such as Windows, Linux, Mac OS and UNIX. But for the better performance, Linux is supposed to be the core Operating System on the servers which can run your Moodle website. Do check your hosting provider too and see if their systems are giving the recommended configuration to Moodle or not. If not, then change your hosting ASAP. 5: Additional Performance Tweaks for Desktops If you are using FireFox, integrate firebug and then YSlow extension in it. This advance tool will tell you the exact loading time of each page of your Moodle website. Also, the YSlow tool will evaluate all the pages in contrast to Yahoo’s 14 rule for fast loading website and gives you the metrics of some common issues on your website. 6: PHP Accelerators to less the CPU load It is suggested for both in-house servers hosting providers to make use of PHP accelerators according to the PHP version. The PHP Accelerator will help to ease the load from the servers while processing PHP queries. 7: Check Memory Limit The latest version of Moodle requires larger memory. Check the memory_limit in php.ini. If the Moodle version is earlier than ver1.7 then reduce the memory to 16M and for 1.7 versions, increase the memory limit to 40M. 8: Optimize the Performance of Apache Server If your Windows server has Apache installed then use the Apache Lounge build version because this build of Apache is far better in performance and stability than the official one. Do remember one thing this version won’t keep you updated with the official patches and releases of Apache. 9: Increase MaxClients Memory Limit Increasing the memory of MaxClients will leave 80% of the available memory for spare. Apache requires maximum 10 MB memory for processes increase up to 100MB. This whole thing will render your Moodle website pages fast. Tip: Don’t increase the MaxClients value to above 256 as this would allow your server to eat more memory. 10: Tweak MYSQL Performance Change MYSQL settings for better performance of the Moodle website. But make sure you have made the backup of the databases before taking any attempt to change the configuration of MYSQL. Some Other Tools to Increase Moodle’s Performance There are some other methods available to increase or boost up the load time for the Moodle website. Such as CDNs (Content Delivery Network) can make your Moodle website accessible for all and Memcached allows quick rendering of the web pages. Well, these are some tips to speed up the performance of your Moodle Website. Hope they work for you. Got any other tip? Do let us know in the comment section below. A company executive has said that Google's contentious plan to unveil a censored search engine in China has been terminated. Although the project was reported to have stopped late last year, there were rumors that it still remained active. Google executive Karan Bhatia said: "We have terminated Project Dragonfly.” A spokesman for the company later verified that Google was not considering launching search in China with no work being done in that regard. Google's model Chinese search engine had previously been branded "disturbing" by one former employee. Dragonfly had drawn censure as a possible means through which Chinese authorities could expurgate web content and screen citizens' behavior online. In late 2018, Google appeared disinclined to confirm that the development of the search engine had been totally stopped, notwithstanding rising pressure on the firm. Chief executive Sundar Pichai told the US House Judiciary Committee in December that work on Dragonfly at that point was "limited”. As per documents secured by investigative news site The Intercept, Dragonfly was launched as a company project in the spring of 2017. In today’s world, creating, developing and handling a website up and running isn't that difficult as it sounds to be. But on the other hand, optimizing the design of your website to give a better user experience (UX), continues to be something that developers struggle with. According to a study, web agencies believe that a website UX is a weakness for clients. We are here to help you understand what exactly today web design trends are is and where you should be focusing and utilizing your skills to make a compelling, appealing UX design. I have compiled here some tips and tricks for website design, website optimization, and the UX. Let’s not wait anymore. 14 Stats that will make the case for smarter website and UX Design General Web Design Stats Two-thirds of people would prefer reading something beautifully designed rather than some plain text. According to a study, 40% people would close the site and stop engaging themselves with the website if the images will take too much time to load Half of the site users think that “thorough contact information” is one of the most important elements which is missing from most of the company’s websites. Many people will stop engaging themselves from the websites if they find it unattractive and unappealing 50% of the website visitors will stop navigating through the website if they find no contact or location information. Get Free Quote From Website Design and Development Agency Website Optimization Stats Between the year 2015 and 2016, tablet internet usage grew by 30%, smartphone consumption increases to 78% and desktop internet dropped to 1%. Now almost half of the people accesses the internet through their mobile devices. Only a few percent uses internet via desktop. 50% of smartphones and tablet owners search for B2B products on their devices. Usability and User Experience Design Stats 50% of any website visitors check the company’s products and services page before checking out any other section of the site. On a company’s homepage, 80% of the site visitors wants to see all the important information about company’s products or services. On a website’s homepage, 70% wants to see the contact information immediately. On the homepage of the website, 60% wants to read “about us” information. If a person is visiting the site via a referral site, 60% will use the navigation menu to orient themselves While visiting any website through referral site, 40% of the users clicks on the logo to go the homepage. Know any other interesting stats about website design and optimization, do share them by commenting in the comment section below. The road for conversion on any website is a long one. Countless of factors matters as why someone would take action on your site. In this post right here, we are going to talk about the most important user group on educational websites which intends to satisfy parents and students. Obviously, any educational website serves many purposes and both users are part of your organization but not necessarily both the users need to be served in the same way for conversions. Let’s take a look at some key website elements which can help effect, achieve and encourage conversions. 1: Compelling and Attractive Headlines There are lots of choices available for students when narrowing down their options for educational sites. In the process of researching, they will look at hundreds of websites recommended to them by others or seems appealing to them in some way. This is the reason that a compelling and straightforward headline is so much important. If a user lands on your website, make them revisit your website again. This can be done through many things since it is difficult to focus on any single aspect of the website, so it’s better to make a bold, loud, stand-out and clear statement to convey your message rather than filling the page with a glut of information. 2: Quality Imagery High-quality images go hands in hands with the compelling and appealing headlines. The homepage and landing pages of your educational website should feature quality photography which gives your user an immediate and positive reaction over that. Pairing with strong headlines or content and high-quality images will leave a long lasting impression on users, convincing them that they have landed in the right spot. 3: Clear, Defined User Paths Education websites serve many user groups. And because of this reason, it is important to have clearly defined user paths to allow easy navigation according to the needs. Giving clear pathways to a relevant and specific content ensures you that the users don’t abandon your site just like that because they can’t find the information they are looking for. 4: Ease of Navigation Educational websites are normally loaded with lots of information, which makes sense as it is fulfilling different needs of user groups and offers a huge number of different courses, programs which should be represented. However, displaying an enormous amount of content can be a challenge when it comes to representing it on the web. Web sites with a variety of content should focus on presenting in such ways which help in navigating the site towards the content which is relevant and useful. 5: The Right CTAs Call-to-action buttons are incredibly an important factor in the conversion process. But it doesn’t force users to take that step instead it guides them the way which makes sense to them. The more satisfied and comfortable your users are, the more likely they will take a step to complete the conversion. Consider it necessary as how much information users require before they take any more serious and important steps such as giving their contact or card information. So ensure to include other options for users who are not yet ready to make any commitment. 6: Social Presence Displaying Social proof on your website is one of a great way to gain user trust and get them connected with your educational institute on a more personal level. Word-of-mouth marketing, social shares, comments, mentions are now considered to be the digital equivalent of a conversation shared between people. Integrating social tools on your site shows that your educational institute possesses a thriving, engaging and successful community. 7: Mobile Optimized Mobile optimized websites are a necessity now. Half of the users’ access web through their phones and Google takes mobile optimization as a ranking factor. The website without mobile optimization is a major drawback and a website performing poorly on the mobile screen is undoubtedly a conversion killer. In a digital era, almost everyone expects websites to function on phones as fine as they do on desktop screens, so it’s wise to meet their expectations to generate leads and conversions. In the End We hope these 7 areas of focus discussed above will help you design your website in a way which influences conversions. Did we miss out any other factor? Do let us know in the comment below. Every website owners are very much concerned about the emails being received by their users in their spam folders. People on different community forums are this major problem of emails being marked as spam so I thought to write up on this and shed some light on this topic for correct configuration and to create a checklist. Obviously, this is no website owner goals to drop their emails into the spam folder. Emails are supposed to be sent to the inbox rather than in the spam. So, today I am going to tell you how to avoid sending spam emails in Magento. How the Spam Filter Works First, let me describe you shortly as for how the spam filter works, not just for Magento emails but for every mail. Whenever any email received to your server, and the spam filter is enabled, it will check all the incoming messages for a list of parameters. Get Free Quote from Professional Magento Development Agency. The parameter can either affect final spam rating in the positive or negative way. Marking whether the email is a spam or not is based on final scores. Average and recommended score to mark any mail as spam is 6.6. If the score is low then it won’t be marked as spam but if the scores are higher then it will go to the spam folder. In this blog, we are going to discuss some most common reasons for the rise of spam score and will provide you some tips to reduce it. Keep in mind, the lower the score is, the more likely the email is going to be sent to the user’s inbox. The Steps to Avoid Spam Mails in Magento Server & IP Configuration Email Structure Email Content Testing Email Messages To decrease the possibility of the spam emails, be ensure the server is configured correctly and the DNS contains all the necessary records. The email message should contain required headers and MIME parts. Server & IP Configuration for emails in Magento SPF DNS Record Configure the domain SPF record correctly. SPF record is basically a TXT record in the DNS which has a list of all the IPs and hostnames, authorized specifically to send emails from the domain. HOW IT WORKS: When any receipt server gets any mail, it checks the IP address for the authorized address. Domain Keys The mail server attaches a signature to every outgoing mail. The signature is used to verify sender server by reading public key located in the DNS record of the system. There are basically three parts: a private server, not visible to anyone on the server, used to generate email signature. A public key, listed in the DNS TXT record, used to verify that the email was signed with a private key of a specific server. But this point doesn’t stop spammers from sending emails using Google servers or others. This is just an additional layer of security. Reverse DNS Whether sending email from a server inside the domain, ensures that it has its own IP address and the hostname is resolved to that IP address.MX Record MX Record is necessary for your domain. It basically tells which email servers is responsible for handling all the incoming emails for the domain. It is required if in case the email couldn’t get delivered to the receipt address, so the receipt server can send an undelivered notification. White IP Address Sometimes IP address can become blacklisted. After getting a new IP address from the provider, it is suggested not to use it for at least a month. The reason behind it is the new IP address might also be used by someone else. This time delay will clear the IP address and becomes “white”. SMTP One of the good solution to use SMTP server to send emails in Magento. It can either be public or private mail sector. Some paid SMTP services are also available on the web. Magento does not work with SMTP, so one need an extension for it. But here is one drawback, there are only a few extensions available in the market which send emails using their own method and will not work through SMTP. Also, maintain the server to ensure it works correctly and is backed up often. The first part is completed, the server is now configured and is all ready to send emails out. Let’s move towards the second step and look at the email messages structure. Recommended E-Mail Structure in Magento Plain Text Part The biggest problem in Magento is it doesn't send the text part. It only sends HTML message part, giving such messages a higher spam score. The text can either be entered manually or can be created automatically. Embedded Images One can't imagine an email without images. It is better to embed images directly into the message instead of linking them from remote resources. Email Content Recommendation for Magento Valuable Text The text is important and useful for the readers. Bring value to it. Don't do marketing for profit only. Don't ever forget that your emails are read by humans. No Image Emails - Do Html Coding Avoid sending emails consisting a single image. It is no doubt hard to code email markup sometimes.Because single image emails are always considered as spam. No Link Shorteners Link shorteners can help you in building nice URLS because it is considered untrusted. Your email will get up to 2 whole points for spam if any shortened link is found inside the email. Testing Emails Messages in Magento 3rd Party Service Checking email in all apps is not possible to do manually. To get it done, you can use third-party services like litmus. It will generate previews of the messages on different platforms, web and desktop email clients. It is a very useful tool. Use your Team Once you are done with automatic testing, we would recommend you to send few copies to your circle, to get real life experience and feedbacks from live people. Test Mobile View Don't ever forget to test the mobile view for Magento emails. Mobile marketing is continuously growing so the emails should look perfect on mobile devices too. The End!!! I hope this information comes handy to you. Got any more questions? Do comment below and I'll be happy to help. Drupal is among the powerful CMS which is used to create a variety of websites without the need of knowing coding. Drupal is an open source like Wordpress and supports modules instead of plugins as in Wordpress to extend the functionalities. The useful way a Drupal can be utilized is by creating an e-commerce website. In this blog guide, I am going to use Drupal 7 since it is one of the widely used versions of Drupal. The two ways through which a Drupal e-commerce website can be made are: By using Drupal Commerce By using Drupal Commerce kick start Drupal Commerce Drupal commerce is not just a framework. It is an application since it is made on the ideology of what can be built using it. Drupal commerce lets you build from scratch and takes an in-depth knowledge as you have to configure every aspect and module of it. Drupal Commerce Kickstart Drupal commerce kickstart is a Drupal distribution. Distribution offers site features and functions for the specific site since a single download contain the Drupal core, shared modules, themes, and pre-defined configuration. Making it possible to quickly set-up complex, use-specific site in fewer steps if you are installing and configuring elements individually. This is very helpful for any user who wishes to kick-start their e-commerce website and run in short period of time and do not wishes to go in depths of Drupal. Get Free Quote and Avail Drupal Development Services. I am going to use Drupal commerce Kick start in this blog after all this is specifically for users who are new to Drupal. So let’s not wait and dive right into it. A distribution is installed in a similar way as of Drupal’s core installation. The step involved in the installation of Drupal Commerce Kickstart are: Download Drupal Commerce Kickstart Decompress the downloaded file Create Database Commence installation Configure set up details Configure site details Configure store Get Started Download Commerce Kickstart Check the Commerce Kickstart site and read the whole page. The download links can be seen on the bottom of the page. Click on this highlighted link to get more detailed download links. Here you will get an option to download the distribution with or without the Drupal core. I am downloading it with Drupal core as it is the simpler method. This will install the distribution along the Drupal core. The installation is done in the same way as the Drupal core would. Decompress the Downloaded File Decompress the file you downloaded into the website’s root folder. And ensure to place the entire folder, and not to forget the hidden .htaccess file. Create Database Go to database manager and create a new database. Don’t forget the name you keep for the database and remember it during installation of the distribution. Commence Installation Once you are done with this, open the web browser and navigate to the root folder (as we are building the website on the root folder, go to http://localhost/). If you follow these steps rightly and get the things correctly done then you will be presented with this screen (below). Agree to all the terms and click on the “let’s get started” Configure Setup Details After verifying all the requirements, a “set-up” database screen will pop up. Here you have to set up your database name. The name should be same as you set earlier for the database created in the database manager. Set the database username and password as well. Fill out all the required fields and click on the “save and continue” button. Configure Site This will install Commerce Kick start 2 and a configure site screen will appear. Here you have to enter your site information, site maintenance account and server settings. After filling out all the required details, click on the below blue button. Configure Store Now, time to configure the store. You will get an option to download the demo store, but do remember once you install the demo store, you cannot remove it without reinstalling the entire site again. Additional features will also be presented to enable modules which allow various functionalities like setting slide show for front page, enabling of social media connections etc. Set all these options according to your choice and proceed to the next step. The screen will display a simple progress bar, indicating the import of contents on your site. Let’s Started Once you are done with this, you will be transferred to “Get Started” screen, where a short intro of the website you created will be given to you. And if you got any queries then navigate to the “help” tab. Conclusion That’s all. You are done! You have finally created your first Drupal commerce site. This above guide is for beginners so we used a distribution with Drupal core which is already included in it. This is the simplest method to install Drupal commerce kick start. I hope this blog guide will help you. Zend is one of the popular PHP frameworks. In all the cases, the performance of the Zend framework is completely dependent on the hosting of the project. In various cases, managed cloud hosting is considered the best option for the Zend framework. Many users don’t know how to install Zend framework 3 on cloud ways. Here’s how you can set up your Zend framework 3 on cloud hosting by following our complete detailed guide of Zend framework hosting on cloud ways. An Introduction to Zend Framework Zend is an open source PHP development framework. Zend supports object-oriented programming and consists of a huge library of components and packages which can be installed and used independently. Zend framework is the most stable and latest version which supports PHP 7. Let’s start with the installation process. To setup the Zend framework on the cloud, you need to make an account. Arpatech provides managed cloud hosting services which are robust and the most reliable hosting service for website owners and e-commerce stores. If you do not have your cloud account, get your managed cloud hosting here. Create a Server and an Application Log in to your cloud account and create the server. Fill in the server and the application details. Select PHP stack as the application and provide your application name. Server name and other project details. Select your cloud provider, scale the server size according to your requirements, choose your location and launch the server. In less than few minutes, your cloud server and your application are ready to work. Launch SSH Terminal Since your application and server is ready, open the server now by clicking the server name. Next, click on the Launch SSH Terminal button, as displayed in the screenshot below. Log in with the username and the passwords provided in the Master credentials. How to install Zend 3 To install the Zend framework 3, go to the application folder, to go to the application folder, type the following commands. cd application ls cd your application name cd public_html Type these following commands in order to start the installation of Zend framework 3. composer create-project zendframework/[REDACTED_SECRET] The installation of Zend framework 3 will start and you can see the process on the screen. Several seconds later of installation, a dialog box will appear asking you the question: you want a minimal install? (With no optional packages) Y/N. After answering the question, it will ask you about component installation. The installation will generate prompts for individual components and you can answer to them according to your requirements. Next, the installation will ask you which file to inject, but for now, do not inject anything and select 0 for all. Please select which config file you wish to inject 'ZendDeveloperTools' into: [0] Do not inject [1] config/modules.config.php [2] config/development.config.php.dist Make your selection (default is 0): 0 Finally, the following prompt will display on the screen. zf-development-mode enable You are now in development mode. At last, the whole installation process is over now, it’s time for you now to launch the application from the menu. Click on the launch application. Don’t forget to append the /[REDACTED_SECRET]/public/ to the URL. And you are done. Your Zend framework 3 development application is now live. Wrapping up In this tutorial, I tried to tell you in the easiest way as how to setup the Zend framework 3 on cloud hosting. I hope that you find this tutorial a helpful one. Do comment below if you are in seek of any help or would like to take part in the discussion. Magento 2 is finally here, after such a long time. Though the wait was worth it because this latest Magento version is built on some different architecture and is more optimized, fast and user-friendly than Magento 1. So, if you are planning to build a new Magento store or thinking to migrate from Magento 1 to Magento 2, this blog is here to help you out. So if you are currently using Magento 1, then the release of Magento 2 will put you in a bit of dilemma and confusion as to whether you should stick to Magento 1 or migrate to Magento 2. In this blog here, I’ll briefly discuss the big data migration process from Magento 1 to Magento 2, and all the key points you need to consider while migrating. Important Aspects to Consider Before Migration The very first thing you need to be cleared on right away is whether you want to stick with Magento 1 or wants to start the migration to Magento 2 now. Here are some important key things to consider while making your decision. Get Free Quote From Magento Development Agency Magento 2 is no doubt a better and faster option. So if your store is newly launched and has no traffic then it’s high time for you to migrate now. If your Magento 1 performance is satisfactory and things are going fine with it then there is no such need to do the migration. Magento 2 has just launched and it doesn’t mean that Magento 1 has lost its worth already. Magento has made an announcement that it will support Magento 1, however, they won’t release any more Magento versions, themes or extensions. That means you can use Magento 1 for some more time instead of migrating too soon. Avoid the upgrading process especially if there’s any important season coming up for the e-commerce store. In some popular shopping seasons like Christmas, Black Friday, New Year, it would be such a bad idea to change your website configuration because it will cause maintenance and downtime and you can never know when things go wrong. SO NO RISK Another important point to note is that whichever theme and extension you are using should be available too for Magento 2. Magento 2 is newly born, although the Magento community is quickly upgrading its latest version’s extensions and themes as Magento 2 is not compatible enough with everything. So if you got any important Magento extension then make sure first that it is compatible with Magento 2. The Migration Plan Here is some brief overview of the steps involved in the big data migration and transferring of your site from Magento 1 to Magento 2. Review the Site Take a good look for the availability of the deisred extensions and themes. Ensure that they are available in Magento 2. Also, do look for unrequired extensions you can drop, along with the database asset you need to migrate or any else asset to drop. Planning for Infrastructure Check out your hosting company whether they have the required capacity to host your Magento 2 site without causing trouble and also if they can sustain and support your Magento 2 site when the traffic scales up. Create a Magento 2 store Create the fresh installation of your Magento 2 and after the installation is done, back up or dump the Magento 2 database as soon as possible. Now, start the installation of your required extensions on the fresh Magento 2 store. Steps for Migration Install Magento migration tool and ensures that it has the access for both the databases of Magento 1 and 2 to start the migration process. Stop all the cron jobs and activity in Magento 1 admin panel. And don’t start or resume the activity unless the whole migration process is completed and your Magento 2 site goes live. Transfer the media files from Magento 1 to Magento 2 manually and use Magento migration tool to migrate all the settings to Magento 2. Use the migration tool for the complete transfer of Magento 1 database to Magento 2. Though both databases have different structures but the migration tool knows how to transfer properly, so your data remains accessible in the installation of Magento 2. But if you are using any extension which uses its own data and has different database structure for Magento 2 then while transferring it to Magento 2, use the mapping files which comes with the data migration tool. Once you are done with the complete database transfer, do reindex your Magento 2 site. And lastly but not the least, do conduct a thorough testing of your new Magento 2 site. Post Migration Steps Now it’s time to migrate the data which uses incremental updates. Once you are ensured that all the data has been completely transferred to Magento 2 and everything is working fine then it’s to make take your Magento 2 to live now. For this, put Magento 1 site first on maintenance mode, stop migration tool, start Magento 2 cron jobs and point the DNS load balancers to the new production hardware. And voila you are done! The flowchart displayed down here explains the steps for migration. This is just an example overview of the overall migration process to help you plan properly. Best Practices to Consider Here are some best practices to keep in mind. Create a duplicate of Magento 1 database and connect Magento 2 to that duplicated database before migration. This is because if you by mistake or accidentally gets connected to the Magento 1 live database, you will lose your Magento 1 database too and it will be unrecoverable. Once you are done with duplicating the Magento 1 database, keep only essential data and erase all the unnecessary. Like recently viewed, compared products report, old promotional rules, logs and order quotes are some unnecessary things. Stop all the other irrelevant activity except order management activity in Magneto 1 admin panel before starting the migration process. If any change is made after creating a duplicate then those changes will not be transferred to the Magento 2. Avoid any code change during migration process. Migration time is not the best time to fix things or make any changes. Hold all these things till the migration process is fully completed. To boost up migration performance, set the <direct_document_copy>1</direct_document_copy> Option in the config.xml. But make sure that both the Magento, 1 and 2 databases are located in one MYSQL instance and the database account can access each database. Now let’s give you an estimate of the professional Migration process time. Any Magento store hosted on VirtualBox VM, CentOS 6, 2.5Gb RAM, CPU 1 core 2.6GHz environment, with database of around 177k products, 355k orders, 214k customers can take around 10 minutes to migrate settings and 9 minutes to migrate the data, and the Magento site has to remain in maintenance mode for few minutes to reindex the Magento 2 site and to change the DNS settings. Migration Tool v/s Manual Transfer The migration tool can be very helpful for migrating the data and settings to Magento 2. But not all your data can be transferred with this tool. There are basically three types of data which need to be transferred manually. Media Store Front Design Access Control List (ACL) Installing the Magento Migration Tool Before installing the migration tool, ensure you have covered all the above steps. Once you are done with all this, use below instructions to start the installation Log in to the Magento site server as a user with the access to edit and create files Go to Magento 2 root directory and enter the command (below) to update the composer.json file first composer config repositories.magento composer https://repo.magento.com Now enter the (below) command to access the current version of the package. composer require magento/data-migration-tool:2.0.0 The command will install the version 2.0.0. Of the package. If you want to use any other package, you can set the version in the command. Wait till the dependencies are installed. Once you are done, enter these below two commands to install the migration tool. composer config repositories.data-migration-tool git https://github.com/magento/data-migration-tool-ce composer require Magento/data-migration-tool:dev-master When these commands will be run, it will ask you for authentication keys. For the public key, enter the username and for the private key, enter the password. This will install Magento migration tool on Magento 2. In this blog, I tried to explain whether if it’s a good decision to migrate to Magento 2 or not. Also, an overview of the migration process is given in this blog with some tips and best practices for the migration process. Follow this blog to clear your mind for creating a migration plan of Magento 1 to Magento 2. Magento 2 is not a lightweight platform. It was designed to serve thousands of customers at once. But you can end up with a website that is a pain to use and an eyesore to look at without proper optimization. Here is the ultimate guide to optimize and boost Magento performance. Why is a slow Magento store bad? Well, you can tell it's because users hate wasting their time. Their frustration leads to fewer sales and poor experience. But that isn't all. Google also discriminates against slow websites – slow Magento is bad for SEO. If your store takes its nice time to load, Google will notice and rank you below your competition. That generates a dangerous slope. In Google's results page, a slow website will sink down and down, leading to fewer individuals finding your online business. Even the most skilled web developers may miss the not-so-obvious settings to increase speed. Slow performance of admin is an awful thing to have. It makes the backend unbearable and sometimes making something as easy as saving a single product provides a troublesome experience. In this blog post, we'll offer you ways to improve the efficiency of your Magento store. Please note that it is important that you take a backup before you start working on your Magento website. Nothing is more frustrating than a broken site. Eliminate unused extensions To speed up Magento, it is best to remove unnecessary extensions rather than simply disabling them. If you disable an extension, it will still be in the database. It would not only improve the size of your database (DB), but it also contributes to DB's reading time. So, keep your approach clear: DELETE it if you don't need it. Once the unnecessary extension has been deleted, it will decrease the database reading time and help load the Magento admin panel quicker. Delete inactive and outdated products One should bear in mind that a fast store is a clean store. We can operationalize the front-end faster by caching and demonstrating only a limited set of products even if we have more than 10,000 items in the back-end, but we can't escape their wrath. If the number of products continues to increase at the backend, your Magento admin panel may be slower, so it is best to remove unused products because each product would take some resources to slow Magento admin panel. Repeat this activity every few months to maintain the store's speed. Reindexing Reindexing is one of the fundamental reason website administrators experience slow performance while saving a product. The Magento backend begins to reindex whenever you save a product, and since you have a lot of products, it will take some time to complete. This leads to unnecessary delays. Now, we can't disable reindexing because keeping all products aligned is very important, but we can always disable auto-updates from the admin. Instead, reindexing can be scheduled via shell. Magento offers very powerful CLI tools, so why not use them. This can be set up via CRON to run somewhere during off-peak times, so the load it causes does not impact visitors. Tuning Up the Database Database tuning plays a significant role in fine-tuning the performance of the Magento admin board and thus enhance the speed. You may need some expertise for this. It's not that difficult either, though. You can simply use a tuner script. Once you have downloaded it, you can execute it. It will guide you on the things you need to do. Clear the Cache The cache is very essential as far as any web application is concerned, so a web server does not have to process the same request over and over again. A fair amount of memory and execution time can be saved by using the cache. However, if you don't clean your cache containers carefully, this gets a little out of control. Magento has distinctive caching methods that use both disk and database to maintain everything clean. It is essential to avoid overloading of the cache folder. There is another folder, i.e. session, along with cache, which also needs to be cleared. Just like the cache, you need to prevent it from expanding too much. Sessions are stored in the database (DB) in some instances. You need to truncate the core session table from DB. Cache tables in the database may also be challenging. So, keeping core cache_% table empty is a good idea. These tables can expand very fast. As a consequence, the database becomes bloated and the output slows down. To make it simpler, here is a sample PHP script that can help you understand the above-mentioned actions. Optimize Images Images are a must-have asset for eCommerce businesses, but optimizing and compressing pictures is of utmost significance as it has a direct impact on page weight. The CDN support team at your eCommerce store can assist with this. Otherwise, you can go to the Google PageSpeed server extension. Varnish for full page caching Implementing Varnish cache is an essential element of your Magento 2 load time optimization method as it can speed up your mobile web loading acceleration more than 25x. Varnish cache is a fast cache technology that functions as a temporary storage unit which makes a copy of your eCommerce store's web pages. When a request is sent to make a web page, the application is first directed to the Varnish server. Rendering pages from the Varnish server requires only a few milliseconds, which considerably decreases the load time (time varies depending on the hardware capacity). Varnish cache can be used as a mechanism for failover, caching inverse HTTP proxy, or load balancer. Using Varnish cache, you can decrease the number of web servers you depend on to support your website and accelerate response time. All these aforementioned steps are an apt guide on how to optimize the performance of your Magento 2 eCommerce. Magento 2 Performance Optimization Identifying and solving bottlenecks will create an enormous difference in the processing of your data. Using full-page cache and varnish will also enhance the speed of your website and boost HTTP traffic. You should always use Magento on your live server's production mode, no excuses. Use minification to reduce the size of CSS and JS files, a smaller file will both download quicker and use less bandwidth. Allow flat tables to minimize requests for databases and enhance response time for databases. Use Magento 2 speed optimization extension, optimize your images and, if possible, use a CDN. Set indexers to be updated on the schedule and allow Magento CRON. This is no new trend. Html templates are the first choice of designers. Making use of Html templates was first started in the initial stages of web designing. No matter how advanced web technologies are, HTML will always lead the way. Some few reasons for the obvious fame for HTML are, Compatibility with all Browsers The HTML templates are supported by every browser such as Google Chrome, Firefox, and Internet Explorer, Safari etc. it is mainly because this markup language is very adjustable and recognizable by many browsers which let you display your website on screen regardless of any browser. Html templates are also accessible from any devices either desktop, laptops or mobile. SEO Friendly Hear, hear, Html templates are SEO friendly. It is easy for search engines to read websites of such templates as their coding is organized. All in all, this method helps to get rid of complex problems. Get free quote from Professional Website Design and Development Agency. Flexible Nature Html is easy to understand by beginners and non-technical person. Because of its pliable nature, developers and designers can customize it accordingly. These are some top reasons as of why the HTML templates are the first choice of designers and developers. Now let’s see some top best Html templates (free or paid) to create some brilliant portfolio websites, software or product app landing pages and much more. The Fekra Multi Page HTML5 Template Fekra, sounds strange. Doesn’t it? The template is a single page parallax suitable for an amazing range of industries and niches. It is mobile responsive and has an unlimited color palette to make the most of this platform. It’s so affordable with 50 demos and lets you create 270 unique pages. Well, this template is the best choice for advanced users. Professional HTML5 Development Company. Metronic - An HTML Dashboard Template Metronic is the template enriched with varieties of functions and features. The theme consists of 7 admin templates, customer base of about 30,000 satisfied developers and also 1500 user interface features. With a fully responsive capability, the template can be used for both professional and personal use. Do check it out and I am sure you’ll love the versatility of it. BeMobile – Mobile Responsive HTML Template With the increasing number of mobile users, BeMobile html template took the advantage of this growing trend and made specifically for the mobile users. The template is fully customizable with 10 different homepage styles, bar styles and features which works only for mobile and commonly found in mobile phones only. The design feature of the template consists of touch device optimization, CSS3 design, ergonomic navigation and also tablet-specific responsiveness. Smart Start- A Smart HTML Template Smart Start is considered to be an ideal template for beginners but it’s not true. We have seen the template is so much versatile for experts too. If you are a graphic designer and wants to make the most of the layered PSD files or can’t live without Ajax infrastructures then you are definitely going to love Smart start. It is compatible with all browsers, mobile responsive and perfect for both HTML 5 and CSS3 users. Flex- A Flexible HTML Template If you wants to showcase or display artworks, products or services then this template is best for you. The Flex template quickly, responsively and elegantly portrays the message without boring the audience with too much content. The template has built-in SEO functionality and allows the implementation of metadata, tags and etc. This is not the end These are not the only best HTML templates but they are among them. Hence, it is now certain that HTML templates have their own identity in web designing and developing industry. Doesn’t matter how advance the web industry becomes, the value of this markup language can never be less. Dollar 1 billion has been invested by Microsoft in OpenAI, reaching a multiyear deal with the artificial intelligence research startup to mutually grow new supercomputing tech. OpenAI will run its services on Microsoft's Azure cloud computing platform. Launched in 2015, San Francisco-based OpenAI has frequently highlighted its focus on the moral use of artificial intelligence that "benefits all of humanity." Microsoft and OpenAI said that artificial intelligence should be used to resolve presently obdurate problems such as the global climate crisis. Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella said in a statement: "AI is one of the most transformative technologies of our time and has the potential to help solve many of our world's most pressing challenges.” "By bringing together OpenAI's breakthrough technology with new Azure AI supercomputing technologies, our ambition is to democratize AI -- while always keeping AI safety front and center -- so everyone can benefit." OpenAI, which has a unique structure, is supported by leading tech leaders such as Elon Musk, CEO of Tesla and SpaceX, and Peter Thiel, a venture capitalist, co-founder of PayPal and a Facebook board member. It began as a nonprofit but earlier this year, the nonprofit formed a for-profit company that the nonprofit's board still controls. The new partnership with Microsoft comes at a time when cloud services for OpenAI have allegedly become a noteworthy cost. Microsoft said that OpenAI has been an Azure customer since 2016. Earlier this year OpenAI offered a glimpse into GPT-2, a AI-powered text generator that focuses on reading comprehension, answering questions and summarizing. "We are in the process of porting our Rapid project to run on Azure," an OpenAI representative said. "Rapid is a large-scale reinforcement learning software we've been developing for the last few years, and was used to train both our Dota agents and the robotic hand." Web design is a difficult job initially, it is because there are several ways to make a website when you are intending to do so. Use of brands is a sidekick job when there is the development of a good website with proper implications. The designing of a website starts off when you make indulgence through a series of actions which are preferable. Be reliant on your creativity with skills and craft you can just start of designing a website which makes a hell of a lot of differences to you. A website is a beginning for those who are insisting on the innovation and quality that is at its peak to start designing a website. The implementation of a particular kind of feature that some websites have like mentioning a few words on a window and being particular with the web content is what you can access. This feature makes a confusing decision you might be putting in with website construction needed to get designed through an option that has an increase of visitors for a purpose. Also, redirection to some other place can have complications and you will need to wait a few minutes before you get to work on this website you access. Also getting to access features such as; about us or contact us, there are preferred links that you will always want to go on within a new page opening. What is disappointing about this is that a user gets to wait a while and changes his mind if the page doesn’t open. This is why there is modal window use to have regular access to websites you use. Ways To Design A Web For Starters Making sentimental use of text, images and other related stuff on your website shows improvements which are necessary to be done. Best implemented websites have text and relevant content that gets posted on them making a relied upon and available use and access in all situations. To make a successfully visited website, it shouldn’t be a source of information that you wouldn’t want to visit. Having the expediency to make a website that is for your betterment, there is a design pattern that gets acquirements with easy access. If there is a large text source it is a bit lethargic and the need to make the website look more attractive is because it is what should be your aim as a developer. Being a web designer, you will need to make the right features availed at the right time with a purpose in making your website look good. If there is a lot of text that you are told to place on your website, try to make it summarised and use the best and more suitable option you are given. A website which is the most attractive has features you can anxiously use when making the particular design. To fill the website with important information is generosity, there are other aspects you need to look at such as lack of space. Designing Processes For Websites As A New Developer People who visit websites regularly are pleased with the simple features that are put into action and are points you will need to use. A lot of mechanisms get you to make a website that you are developing, and perception of the simple construction of a site is made through development tactics and ideas you want to put into use. A project has several uses and means to accept and consistently have a site developed which is practical. So try out options that have never been tried out before, to make your website look as unique as new and have more visitors than ever. Innovation is a requirement but an access can be difficult to use with differences you always accept. Online retailers operating their stores on Magento 2 may experience some difficulties when choosing to customize shipping methods and set advanced rules for order delivery. The default Magento 2 functionality is restricted when it comes to setting complex rules and restrictions and generating shipping carriers and methods at different rates. High shipping expenses have a negative impact on customer purchase decisions, so optimizing shipping processes becomes one of the primary issues for e-commerce store owners. Fortunately, by installing the suitable third-party module, you can extend the out-of-the-box toolset on your Magento 2 site. The extension enables users to create highly tailored shipping strategies by configuring an infinite amount of shipping carriers and methods. It comes with some conditions to restrict certain shipping options and create rules that are in line with business strategy. Let's take a closer look at its features. Features & Benefits of MageWorx The unlimited number of table rates. Possibility of setting individual prices for particular shipping carriers and methods. Option to override the delivery time value indicated in the shipping method. Various methods for calculating shipping costs. Possibility of applying fixed and percentage surcharges and discounts to shipping costs. Advanced conditions for configuration table rates. The quantity, cost or weight of products in the order as the basis for the shipping rate. Advanced validation of postcodes and zip codes. Support for alphanumeric postal codes. Import and export of shipping table rates via CSV. Magento 2 facilitates assigning only one set of table rates per shipping method. With MageWorx's Shipping Table Rates, you can upload a list of your shipping rates and relate them to default and custom shipping techniques and carriers. The extension allows you to generate individual rates for chosen shipping providers. In addition, the configurations of the module allow users to prioritize table rates, conceal shipping options with no available rates, and show different costs depending on the view of the store. Moreover, the sophisticated shipping options module Magento 2 can override the importance of the estimated delivery time specified in a shipping method. You will, therefore, provide your customers with the precise date and time of delivery of their order. As for the calculation choices of delivery rates, it is possible to substitute or alter the default method price with the MageWorx extension. This allows you to overwrite the original shipping cost, surcharge the designated sum to the original value, or set a shipping discount by deducting from the rate of the method. The Magento 2 module also allows changing default prices using fixed or percent amount of surcharge and discount. Furthermore, the Magento 2 table rates module offers users with advanced conditions for configuring customized shipping rates. Using the extension settings, you can calculate the exact shipping cost based on the delivery address in accordance with the following parameters: Total weight or weight range of products in an order. Order subtotal or cost range of items ordered. The number of products in order or quantity range of items. As for the delivery destination, the module enables the targeting of a customer's geographic location by specifying a postal or zip code in addition to choosing a shipping country and region. The feature of the Shipping Table Rates extension allows store owners to leverage advanced validation based on a specific postal code or postcode list, as well as the range of zip codes. Thus, you can activate shipping rates depending on the destination of the order, thus avoiding fees for correcting the delivery address and providing unique pricing for shipments to particular locations. It is also important to note that in relation to numerical postal / zip codes prevalent in most countries, MageWorx Shipping Table Rates supports alphanumeric postcodes. This kind of codes is used in countries such as the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Canada, Ireland, and others. So, if you deliver your products to these locations, the Magento 2 module offers the necessary features to set the suitable zip code format. Another useful feature of the Shipping Table Rates extension is the functionality of import/export. The module offers the capacity to readily transfer shipping-related data from other sources, such as from your other website. It allows you to handle and analyze all your shipping charges from one place conveniently and edit information manually when necessary. You can also import a CSV file with existing table rates and assign it to any shipping method or carrier depending on your business requirements. Conclusion MageWorx shipping suite is a robust Magento extension that offers an extensive set of tools to modify Magento 2 shipping integration options and create custom shipping, methods, and rates. MageWorx enables merchants to create custom shipping carriers. By using this module's advanced shipping conditions, you can extend your delivery choices and limit specific shipping options as your business strategy needs. Thus, you can streamline Magento shipping extension management in your web store and provide more convenient delivery and reasonable shipping costs for your customers. When you are out to design websites there are different processes and templates you will need to underline to make best design features in processing. The use of different ideas is what you generally understand and make the crux of a web developer who is there trying to figure out what to do. Making an idealistic website is the provision of a clean and clear mind that is necessitating to have. You can avail through an online means, a selection of designing features that you find important in most ways where you practice. An original design is where there is generally important thinking and the arts and crafts worked out as a special designing means you always use. Search through the online material which readily gets provided and make the best of web designing you are involved in. Web designing inspirations are a means that are connecting you as an online developer and a person who makes the web in a livable environment. A more artistic process is always where there are several designing features you want to connect with in different situations. Having the courage to see what is more suitable in most situations, gets you to work things out normally. A few features that need to be put into usage are colour palettes, website types and design styles that help get you a good website design feature. Being a specialised designing and individual that you are assured to be, there are certain patterns you want to keep at hand in different situations. Get a design style and be prepared to convince the user of a website with the design and specification it has. Better Design Tricks For Web Designers Web design has more tricks you can accept to make regular use of a particular kind of design that will make your website look attractive. Settle having a selection of ways and means you regularly accept when you start designing the website you want. Perceive a regular kind of template and make best efforts to design the website according to standards that it was meant for. Illustrations and handmade carvings on websites make it look as attractive as you can perceive and are perfect for the management of web design with regular features. A more vivid implementation of a website is what you might want to make as there is a faultless design which is implemented. The use of specialised textures and patterns are just a way the website needs to get designed with pertinence and ease of access. Have a correct kind of website design that you influence others with who are regular website visitors, making their purpose felt and understood. Where a perceptive and contested method of access is relevant there is ease of use with a standard designed website that always makes an impact on the online industry in different ways. Idealistic Website Design Processes You Will Need Designing is not an inborn art but is has management with developing trends you get as you are trained to manage. With the use of particular design features, there is management which solely relies on ways websites are managed and developed with a trend. Depending on the product there is still more than you will want to consider with designing features specially kept in mind. See to it that you make the product shown through an image on the front page and get the illustration a little bit ahead. Serve the purpose to perfect an implementation through a basic mind’s eye you can place on the website to show a description that makes logic. Have an understanding and convey an online world of evidence that is where a picture and explanation strikes out directly to you. Be more illustrative rather than being slow and boring in designing a website with ease. Designing and developing any e-commerce site or online web shop on Magento is very challenging. The features seem so easy but actually, they are not. A Magento designer has to spend a lot of time and energy in order to complete the task. Similarly, Magento developer spends too much time in converting the solutions into code. All this can happen easily and effectively with the smooth communication between developers and designers, which don’t usually happens in most of the organization. While designing any website, designers prefer to create a unique and simple web for a better user interface. Professional designers firstly study the behavior of the user plan things through trying multiple solutions and in end checks if the functionality is possible in Magento Development Services. Communication is Important Communication is the only way which can help fix the solution between the designer and the developer. Only communication can bring neat and incredible results. Communication is the moment when “face to face” work meetings makes the entire development and design process easy. By brainstorming and communicating, one can find the perfect solution to offer great user experience with great performance. Regular communication helps the most in the wireframe phase, the phase where most of the website structure, informational architecture, and features are being arranged. Wireframe & the Design Phase It is quite impossible to make a developer understand what exactly the main idea is and what the desired result is. Here designers play an important part in the briefing about the conclusion of the conducted research, importance of the features and explain more properly through wireframes and animations as what the final version should look like. The first phase of the Magento project, where wireframes are given to developers, dialog about features, transitions and many other little things happen. While on the other hand, if the design would be given to any independent development company, they would just pass the design to the frontend developers. This will create trouble in understanding the designer’s idea. In this phase, designers and developers check every feature of the pages for different resolutions and checks for any possible issues which can happen while translating the design into code. To keep all this mind, first people sees that wireframes are all frontends and back end developers. Wireframes should be first approved by front-end developer, then by the client and in the end, by the design team. Final Phase Once the developers are done with their job, it’s time for designers to check and make sure that everything is in place. This is the final phase where all the small details and issues are found and fixed. The collaboration between the designer and the developer makes building a Magento development site as efficient as possible. A language that gets written through PHP code is a major breakthrough online, it has loops and turns which are considered useful. With the language used in development, there are certain key features you want to access in Drupal Development. Make most acceptable changes that have scrutiny which you will be certain to make use of. Assert where a decision is based on variation through development loopholes and wants that are seen with tokens. First of any are the field tokens which are one of many you are certain to use in most ways. Perceive which way you want to move and select a discovery you seem to make sense with in most situations. Different types of tokens such as formatted fields and field properties are just the types that are a concern with programming for sites. Tokens always give field property access that is legitimate with fields making a perfect use in Drupal development. Field property tokens are similar kind of tokens that are inserted in the lines of code to make selective association online. Drupal Having Proper Compatibility Through Token Use Relate with a use and access that is consistent and makes you a developer who looks for compatibility to use tokens. Associate and be pertinent to accrue with regular use of Drupal fields which serve with persistence having ease of use. Be sure there are relevant means to correlate as there are ways to access code logic online making user-friendly Drupal inception. Drupal has features such as content management systems such as login fields that are consistent and make applications more viable. Certify a means as you will be assured to get conclusive features making your program in a user-friendly way. Certain and contrive through applications you always retain on the web making systematic and declared methods to develop in Drupal. Menu management and maintenance are also a few procedures that Drupal programmed websites usually have in them. The field token is thereby a key in the insertion of codes you logically want to connect with in most ways. Perceptual use of preferred keys makes sense as you might be regarding the development and understand as assistance. Inheritance Of Drupal Elements Where Use Of Tokens Is Compulsory Where the use of tokens as fields has made proper and reliable developers choice is an initiation in web development. Settle using online means to have consistent use of tokens as fields you always tend to have an application of in programming online. Use of variety through tokens as a remedy to programming flaws results otherwise. Set your statements right and select insertion of tokens as web processes developing the featured website you want to design. Search for the correct fields that are based on management technology and worth it uses with the connection. See a persistent association and find an easy way into programming background that has to do with token use. The programming platform has a code you will be running as a server on the web with the use of PHP and a database which is connected with it. As the joining on the web is relative and it has rightness and valuation that is remedial having token fields in website code. Perfect and see the complicated use of tokens as fields and make assortment in a complete package of codes you can readily use. Perceive and make management selection as essential which makes use through acceptance and composition in programming lines of code. Observe with a variety used and settle with Drupal as a Web application network you always want to rely on when programming. Always see the insertion of token fields when you are covering a vast array of lines of codes in online development. Technology greats of the Silicon Valley have apparently united to make WiFi connectivity easier and more effective in the future. It’s reported that the group has come up with the inkling of a new WiFi bandwidth for 6GHz before the Federal Communications Commission. The new WiFi band, it is thought, will bring new, unfailing connectivity for numerous types of devices including AR/VR headsets, smartphones, laptops, tablets and more. “As detailed in the slide presentation, we explained that VLP operations in the 6 GHz band operating without Automated Frequency Coordination (“AFC”) at 14 dBm EIRP, or -5 dBm/MHz radiated Power Spectral Density (“PSD”), would present no real-world risk of harmful interference to licensed FS operations,” mentioned the accompanying letter sent to FCC Secretary Marlene Dortch. Apple and Google are supporting 6GHz WiFi because they can use it for their smartphones, AR/VR headset, virtual assistant-based car infotainment system, and other devices that can use the same band. The advent of this new band may improve the use of 5tG connectivity in smartphones, which FCC is yet to confirm. It’s also stated that this technology could also bring peer-to-peer connectivity between vehicles, which may help avoid crashes between self-driving cars in the future, a project on which Apple seems to be working on. Mostly, a single database connection is required only while working with Magento. Magento has excellent features to add new tables to the database or extend the existing ones. So why do we need an external database connection outside the Magento? Well, data migration from other e-commerce systems is one of the examples. In this blog here, I am going to tell you a simple way as how to do external database connection in Magento with CRUD (create, read, update, delete) examples. Configuration In XML configuration, the external database connection is similarly defined as the Magento default one. The difference between internal and foreign connection is that foreign connection is defined inside the particulars module’s XML configuration. It defines read and write adapters and sets up the database credentials. Foreign tables are also defined in the same way as Magento table. They are defined under abc_foreignconnection_resource node so the model resource can be called later in the code. For a demo, here is a frontend node in XML config. <?xml version="1.0"?> <config> <modules> <Inchoo_ForeignConnection> <version>1.4.2</version> </Inchoo_ForeignConnection> </modules> <global> <models> <inchoo_foreignconnection> <class>Inchoo_ForeignConnection_Model</class> <resourceModel>inchoo_foreignconnection_resource</resourceModel> </inchoo_foreignconnection> <inchoo_foreignconnection_resource> <class>Inchoo_ForeignConnection_Model_Resource</class> <entities> <product> <table>product_description</table> </product> </entities> </inchoo_foreignconnection_resource> </models> <resources> <inchoo_foreignconnection_write> <connection> <use>inchoo_foreignconnection_database</use> </connection> </inchoo_foreignconnection_write> <inchoo_foreignconnection_read> <connection> <use>inchoo_foreignconnection_database</use> </connection> </inchoo_foreignconnection_read> <inchoo_foreignconnection_setup> <connection> <use>core_setup</use> </connection> </inchoo_foreignconnection_setup> <inchoo_foreignconnection_database> <connection> <host><![CDATA[localhost]]></host> <username><![CDATA[username]]></username> <password><![CDATA[password]]></password> <dbname><![CDATA[db_name]]></dbname> <initStatements><![CDATA[SET NAMES utf8]]></initStatements> <model><![CDATA[mysql4]]></model> <type><![CDATA[pdo_mysql]]></type> <pdo_type><![CDATA[]]></pdo_type> <active>1</active> </connection> </inchoo_foreignconnection_database> </resources> </global> <frontend> <routers> <inchoo_foreignconnection> <use>standard</use> <args> <module>Inchoo_ForeignConnection</module> <frontName>fconn</frontName> </args> </inchoo_foreignconnection> </routers> </frontend> </config> Model The next thing is the model which is used to define a foreign connection to get or save data in any foreign database. Here the model is initialized with the product table from XML configuration, which in this case defines product_description table. class Inchoo_ForeignConnection_Model_Product extends Mage_Core_Model_Abstract { protected $_eventPrefix = 'inchoo_foreignconnection_product'; protected $_eventObject = 'product'; protected function _construct() { $this->_init('inchoo_foreignconnection/product'); } } The model resource class is defined as the same xml config node in _init()function, but with the table_primary_key parameter. Several functions can be created in this class which can work with external data. 1st Example is CreateDataInResource function, which will insert data into model’s table. It takes an array of parameters which are required to be inserted. 2nd Example is ReadDataFromResource function which fetches all the data from the model’s table. Read adapter should be defined first. It’s a configuration node from XML which defines read connection. After the read adapter definition, other Magento database connection such as (select(), from(), limit(), etc) can be used. Read adapter will execute the query once it is constructed completely. To fetch data, one can use these functions FetchPairs() or FetchAll(). FetchAll is used to get all the records returned from MySQL. UpdateDataInResource and DeleteDataInResource functions requires additional $id parameter that defines which record is going to be updated or deleted. class Inchoo_ForeignConnection_Model_Resource_Product extends Mage_Core_Model_Resource_Db_Abstract { const TABLE_PRIMARY_KEY = 'product_id'; protected function _construct() { $this->_init('inchoo_foreignconnection/product', self::TABLE_PRIMARY_KEY); } public function createDataInResource($values = array()) { $writeAdapter = $this->_getWriteAdapter(); try { $writeAdapter->insert( $this->getMainTable(), $values ); } catch (Exception $e) { Mage::log('Unable to insert data to external resource. ' . $e->getMessage(), null, null, true); } } public function readDataFromResource() { $data = array(); $readAdapter = $this->_getReadAdapter(); $select = $readAdapter->select() ->from($this->getMainTable(), '*') ->limit(20); try { $data = $readAdapter->fetchAll($select); } catch (Exception $e) { Mage::log('Unable to fetch data from external resource. ' . $e->getMessage(), null, null, true); } return $data; } public function updateDataInResource($id, $values = array()) { $writeAdapter = $this->_getWriteAdapter(); try { $writeAdapter->update( $this->getMainTable(), $values, self::TABLE_PRIMARY_KEY . '=' . $id ); } catch (Exception $e) { Mage::log('Unable to update data in external resource. ' . $e->getMessage(), null, null, true); } } public function deleteDataFromResource($id) { $writeAdapter = $this->_getWriteAdapter(); try { $writeAdapter->delete( $this->getMainTable(), self::TABLE_PRIMARY_KEY . '=' . $id ); } catch (Exception $e) { Mage::log('Unable to delete data from external resource. ' . $e->getMessage(), null, null, true); } } } class Inchoo_ForeignConnection_Model_Resource_Product_Collection extends Mage_Core_Model_Resource_Db_Collection_Abstract { public function _construct() { $this->_init('inchoo_foreignconnection/product'); } } Usage in Controller All these below functions describes in IndexController class, but as they are defined in Model’s resource class, they can also be called in any controller class. class Inchoo_ForeignConnection_IndexController extends Mage_Core_Controller_Front_Action { publicfunction indexAction() { // Create $foreignProductCreate = Mage::getModel('inchoo_foreignconnection/product')->getResource(); $foreignProductCreate->createDataInResource( array( 'product_name' => 'Product name', 'product_description' => 'Product description' ) ); // Read $foreignProductRead = Mage::getModel('inchoo_foreignconnection/product')->getResource(); $result = $foreignProductRead->readDataFromResource(); var_dump($result); // Update $foreignProductUpdate = Mage::getModel('inchoo_foreignconnection/product')->getResource(); $foreignProductUpdate->updateDataInResource( 3394, array( 'product_name' => 'Product name updated', 'product_description' => 'Product description updated' ) ); // Delete $foreignProductDelete = Mage::getModel('inchoo_foreignconnection/product')->getResource(); $foreignProductDelete->deleteDataFromResource(3394); } } In most cases, Magento uses different types of external connection to retrieve or send data, but sometimes an external database connection is a good to go thing. Give it a try and do let us know in the comment section below as how it worked. What are the most popular tools used by mobile app developers? What is the best tool for mobile app development? Or Which is the best platform to build an app? Are some of the questions we are going to answer here. As applications become a go-to approach for businesses to promote their services, many small businesses are seeking in-house development platforms to cut expenses and develop the finest app they can. With instructive instruction and plenty of templates to choose from, they can quickly generate a good-looking mobile app. There are a number of app building platforms that allow you to create high-class mobile apps without needing you to learn to code or spend a lot. These tools will help you quickly develop applications based on hundreds of existing templates. It is essential to choose the right tool/s to guarantee that an ideal mobile application is designed for your purpose. 1. Appery.io Appery is a cloud-based mobile app builder which you can use to build Android or iOS applications, including Apache Cordova (Phone Gap), Ionic, and jQuery Mobile with access to its built-in parts. It is easy to get started quickly since there is nothing you need to install or download as the builder works in the cloud. For building UI, Appery App Builder makes use of a drag and drop features as it demands visual editor. It has a characteristic of generating an auto-code for any component that you drop in. You have access to add a cloud database instantly as well as the backend to your app when you are in need to store data. With the Appery plugin catalog, you can add strong features or create your own custom personal plugins to use in your apps. If you work with a team, you can readily share your project with them and collaborate for an additional fee in real-time. 2. Xamarin Xamarin is a C#-based cross-platform framework that app developers can leverage. Xamarin is a cross-platform based on C# that app developers can leverage. One of the best qualities of Xamarin is that it is an ideal tool which enables users to work with native IDEs, APIs, or languages. It gives you access to data across multiple platforms and can also reuse business logic layers. Xamarin also supports QA and testing features to promote the development of robust, scalable mobile applications. 3. TheAppBuilder AppBuilder is the best choice that offers a suite of apps to fit staff, customers, events, and brochures, with two distinct approaches available. If you wish to design an app as an intranet for a company, AppBuilder proves to be the best pick. With the help of available online toolkit and the training available, this platform will help you work while describing and building the app's structure and populate it with initial content. You can provide your customers with a window into various applications using the dedicated AppLibrary and even customize it with your own branding. It also helps you in securing both public and private apps with usernames and passwords and distribute them through the app store, using the active directory integration of TheAppBuilder to enable login with existing credentials and user groups. Moreover, it helps you update the content and framework even after the applications have gone live. It allows you to create unlimited updates and publish them in one click on various mobile platforms. It has a support a number of platforms including native iPhone, iPad, and Android, with live updates within 60 seconds of posting a change. 4. XOJO XOJO has proven to be another great choice to develop iPhone device applications. XOJO’s toolkit helps developers to work faster and provide greater performance. This open-source platform is known for its simplicity. It can easily build cross-platform apps because it has all the rich features that developers look for. It offers generous support for graphics, DB servers, IPs so you can develop any kind of applications, bringing imagination to reality. With minimal distraction, it helps developers focus on making out-of-the-box applications. It is particularly preferred for a superb app interface. 5. Appcelerator As the name suggests itself, Appcelerator accelerates the app development process with briefly thin lines of coding for app creation. It's a popular Titanium platform on Twitter, which developers can leverage to build native apps for mobile platforms, desktop ad tablet devices. Appcelerator works quite well with languages such as JavaScript, HTMS, Ruby, PHP, and Python. It is a platform which empowers more than thousand native applications every month. It is beneficial in terms of location data and APIs and customizable metrics, that is why it is the top choice for various developers. It also facilitates you with real-time analytics that helps you keep a track of performance as well as find issues. 6. Appy Pie Appy Pie is a cloud-based mobile app development tool that enables users to develop and publish an app for almost any platform without programming abilities. There's nothing to install or download — just drag and drop pages to build your own online mobile app. Once finalized, you will obtain an HTML5-based hybrid app that functions with all platforms, including popular mobile platforms: Android, iOS and Windows, and even a Progressive app. All revisions are in real-time, with the capacity to send push notifications, monetize advertisements, see live analytics, and track GPS location. You can also incorporate social media feeds, blogs, websites, audio, radio, and more. You are provided with different themes while using this platform, ranging from a restaurant to a radio station. They also have an appointment scheduler tool, which is particularly helpful for companies such as physicians, salons, or spas with contact features such as one-touch call included. You can embed custom code and iframes using the code page. 7. PhoneGap PhoneGap is Adobe's diverse open-source app development tool and is most sought-after by new-age app developers due to its widespread benefits. With the help of this tool, you can develop a single app that operates on most mobile device systems such as Android, iOS, and Windows. Other than these, it also supports other platforms such as BlackBerry, iTouch, iPad, and Symbian. This is PhoneGap's greatest advantage app developers have. PhoneGap is a platform which builds apps that are compliant with HTML5, JavaScript, CSS3. The tool best interacts with native device components such as GPS, camera, accelerometer, sound, and more. The framework has a wide library of components that you can use to strengthen the functionality of the app. Its enormous flexibility saves time and effort in building high-quality applications. 8. AppMachine AppMachine is considered to be the most easy-to-use platform that develops and design professional native applications for both iOS and Android. With its drag-and-drop interface, you can merge various construction blocks that give a range of features such as data, pictures, and video. AppMachine's building blocks also allow you to connect your app to Facebook, Twitter, or online stores. You can design the app in your own distinctive style and choose your navigation routes, colors, fonts and icons, take full control of the layout and watch your progress using the Previewer. It also facilitates you to scan a website for key content that could be transferred to an iOS or Android app. Test your app as you build it and test how it works on different devices. When you are done testing your app and it is all set to go live, you can publish and promote the app as well as analyze user data. AppMachine takes care of everything you need to get your app to Apple's App Store and Google Play. 9. Zoho Creator Zoho Creator is a multi-platform application builder that enables you to create a new app or use a ready-made app. The software is specifically designed for companies seeking to simplify and automate tasks, such as creating applications for functions such as sales management, order management, event management, logistics, or recruitment monitoring, for instance. Whatever you're planning to do, however, you can customize it completely the way you want. Zoho Creator involves a drag-and-drop editor to assist build your app from within a single dashboard. While initially targeting companies looking to create applications for specific needs within their business, Zoho Creator can also be used to create applications for the wider market. Even better, you can incorporate data from other applications, improving their usability. Potential integrations include other Zoho applications, Paypal, Twilio, G Suite, and Quickbooks. 10. Ionic It is the framework for the growth of HTML5 mobile apps. It is extensively used to develop mobile hybrid applications. It is a helpful tool for building mobile apps using web technologies such as CSS, HTML5, and SASS. Ionic Framework is a project that is 100% free and open source. It builds a progressive mobile web and native applications for every key app store. It provides excellent tools and services for creating extremely interactive applications. Moreover, it enables web developers to create applications with a single code base fall major app store. It comes with many CSS elements and JavaScript components to develop mobile apps. Ionic emulates the native UI guidelines of the app and employs native SDKs. Conclusion This was the list of some of the best mobile app development tools and frameworks you can adopt for 2019. Reliable and unique, each of them has an incredible ability to meet your project demands and offer an app for both Android and iOS. To speed up the websites can be sometimes a daunting task, but it can be done easily if you set up your Magento store by using Amazon CDN (CloudFront Content Delivery) Network to serve all the media files, JavaScript and CSS. CloudFront caches content on servers throughout the world and displays to the viewers based on the locations, to reduce network transmit time, in result to load the page faster. To setup the CloudFront, one need an AWS account. Once the account sets up, go to AWS management console and select CloudFront and click on “Create Distribution”. This will immediately start the process for creating a custom CDN for the Magento site. Get Free Help From Professional Magento website development company. You have to create a “Web” distribution to speed up the distribution of static and dynamic content. Some necessary fields to create the distribution are: Origin Domain Name – the actual site name – on which the CloudFront will pull the content from if it’s not cached in the CDN. The Origin ID is Amazon internal ID which will be used to identify the distribution so it should be unique. The alternate domain name (CNAME) is the place where you’ll put the URL to pull the content from. Now click on the Create Distribution and the CloudFront will start creating the CDN. Time to configure the DNS, go to the distribution which is just created and see for the CloudFront specific domain name. Copy that domain name with the DNS provider, configure the CNAME to point from http://cdn.your-magento-site to the CloudFront domain name. When you are done with the Cloudfront configuration and the CNAME had propagated, time to test it by loading the image from the site to the browser http://cdn.your-magento-site.com/media/catalog/abc.jpg and use the URL from CDN. The image should be loaded correctly with an additional response header of 'Via:1.1 abc123asqf.cloudfront.net (CloudFront).' If the testing works fine, then it’s time to update your Magento system configuration to make use of CloudFront. Navigate to System > Configuration > General > Web, and an unseen area will appear called Unsecure, with following settings (below) Change the Base Skin URL, Base Media URL and Base JavaScript URL settings according to your new CloudFront CDN CNAME. Save this configuration and any requests to your magento-site.com for media, CSS or javascript will be routed to the newly configured CDN URLs. If any request object doesn’t find on Cloudfront then it will go to its origin server, fetch the required object and cache it all over the CloudFront servers. Save all those settings, your Magento store will now be using Cloudfront, the admin will be using the base URL, and your multimedia and your WYSIWYG editor will properly be functioning. Voila, you have learned using how to set up CDN in your Magento. Got any query? Do Let us know in the comment section below. Themes are an important part for any website or ecommerce store. They are the most important part of the front end UI and the back end interface for any web. There are two things which make Magento the most flexible and a powerful ecommerce platform, one is organized structure and the other its millions of functionalities. The very first thing that any developer do while creating any new project in Magento, is create a Magento theme which have custom styling and functionality. Creating a Magento theme is quite easy and simple. All you have to do is to follow Magento recommendations and rules to make things more simplified. This Magento theme creation from scratch blog is for beginners and will cover most of the basic front end theme development. So let’s get started. Magento Theme Fundamentals Magento themes are stored in design packages. Every package can have multiple themes. When you install Magento, 3 packages are available. Base Package: The default Magento theme with all the necessary work files are placed in here. Never, ever delete or edit Base packages files Default Package: this package is found in CE edition of Magento not in EE. This can be removed safely from the package while installation and can be restored while upgrading Magento. RWD: It is the new package which contains new responsive Magento theme. Magento has two main folders in collaboration with each other. “App Directory” contains files which controls how template pages are rendered. “Skin Directory” contains files which controls site’s appearance. Template Files app/design/frontend/package/theme The layout folder has XML files which defines and control structural and content blocks of the theme. The template folder has .phtml files – contains the markup for each Magento blocks which are displayed in the front-end Skin files app/skin/frontend/package/theme Skin folder has everything such as CSS, images, js, Sass etc Do remember the package and the theme names must be same in both the design and skin folders Time to Create the Theme Firstly, create a new design package in “design” and “skin” folders. In the design package, create a new folder for your theme and name it. Now create two new folders in the theme folder namely “layout” and “template” In skin folder, open the theme folder and create these folders – css, js, and images Now create “local.xml” and place it in the “layout” folder Starting up with the Theme Now tell Magento which package and theme are default one For this, go to System > configuration > design Tell Magento which package will be used. You can see above, assets can be used from multiple things. Templates can be called from one theme, skin files from other. Paste the theme name in all the fields except “default” one. Voila, your theme is already. But wait we are not done yet. You got no files in your folder and for that you’ll be needing Magento fall back system help. Magento fall back system helps you to edit your theme without duplicating unchanged files. Magento has many small blocks which are rendered and combined to be served. If any of these files are missing, you will get an error and the site will be broken Basically Magento looks for files in the theme folder. If finds it, outputs it , if not then it looks for default theme in custom design package and even if it doesn’t find it there then it goes to search in “base” package and look for it. And if doesn’t find it anywhere then Magento generates error. So now you have learned as how the Magento fall back system works. There are three rules to follow. Create your own design package and the theme inside it. Duplicate the files from base/default folder, but make sure only the ones which can be edited The theme should hold the files which are changed. Well I hope this article will help in creating a Magento theme. Got any questions? Don’t wait. Ask them in the comment section below. It is no more a secret anymore that PHP 7 has gained a lot of popularity, more than its previous versions. There are some questions which arise while developing with this advance version of PHP such as how it will affect sites which run on Wordpress. PHP 7 is no doubt an advance update for server-side web development language, and not in PHP but it's going to impact a lot on other PHP-powered CMS like Drupal, Joomla, and Magento. Upgrades in Performances The biggest performance upgrade in PHP 7 is the direct response to all the criticism for all the past performance issues for the platform. This new PHP 7 release will give a 50% increase for the apps and will be quicker than HHVM. Double Speed This latest new update is twice as fast as PHP 5.x. PHP 7 executes codes faster and requires only few servers to manage the same quantity of requests each second. For example, Wordpress homepage now requires 72% fewer instructions to execute than previously. Latest & Improved Operators The two operators that make their debut on PHP 7 are Spaceship and Null Coalescing. The former makes the designers chained comparison briefer while the latter is supposed to check if something exists. Function Type Clues In PHP 7, you are now allowed to use Boolean, Integers, Floats and strings as function type hints. In addition to that, you can even declare a function's return type. This will help in preventing you from passing and returning the wrong types from functions. Engine Exception Exceptions added in this latest release of PHP 7 engine will help designers to handle errors in applications. The new engine exception introduced in this version will replace these types of errors, which is a great news for designers. If they now witness any fatal error, they can immediately remove it. Continuous 64-Bit Support It is now possible to operate PHP on a 64-BIT Windows system with total confidence. This is no doubt a remarkable change because the earlier versions of PHP have failed to support 64-bit integers or bigger files. Group Use Declaration Group Use Declaration is another more interesting feature of PHP 7. They outstandingly have improved PHP namespace implementations. Now you can import as many classes as you want from the namespaces, all because of this syntax. Another benefit of this syntax is, you have to write less code. Anonymous Class Support Classes with no name help developers to enhance their coding and fasten the execution time. Well, other programming languages like Java and C# also let developers make use of anonymous classes in their code. Abstract Syntax Tree PHP 7 introduces Abstract Syntax Tree and for good reason. It is the middle phase in the whole language compilation process. AST (Abstract Syntax Tree) has come with lots of advantages like the possibility of more optimization, refined code quality and the chance to use tools such as static code analyzers. Removal of Unacceptable Items Good news, some deprecated features, unsupported or dead server APIs and extensions are removed in this latest version of PHP. Here see the list of removed items: ASP style tags PHP 4 style constructors. Ereg and MYSQL extensions. These are some necessary things to keep in mind while moving to PHP 7. Notifications Stay alerted for notifications. Hosting sites usually send the notification to the site owners prior to any PHP updates. Do tell your hosting provider if you missed anything by mistake. Wordpress Site Backup It would be great if you save the copies of your Wordpress site in multiple locations before migrating to PHP 7. This applies even when you think that the update will not break your site. Update Before Migrate Update all your site elements like the themes, plugins and the whole Wordpress site before migrating to PHP 7. It is a wise precaution to ensure that all the site elements work fine even after the migration. Talk to your Hosting Provider Don’t feel shy in contacting your web hosts’ support team. Ask them if they are able to take care of all the site issues while migrating. Ask them to simply install a new copy of Wordpress and then restore your whole site from the backup. Wrapping it up With all these updates, the release of PHP 7 sounds are all exciting for the developers and designers. The new update is designed with lots of features which has made the programming language faster and more improved. Still scared in migrating to PHP 7? So it is recommended to follow all the precautions to avoid any mishaps. The use of social sharing is a common feature in development especially for websites, there are other things that make you moved, having different reactions. Getting the look of whether you will need to have the consideration to make social sharing options are what seem legitimate. Assert and confidently make a selection on how you prefer the social media button to be like. Search online and consider a preferable means to accredit and consolidate through pertinence which you are considering access of. Seeing that there is no glitch with the essence that social media sharing has online, you can perfect with an insinuation in most ways. Settle wherever use of social media as perfection makes certainty with sharing which seems credible online. Get Free Quote and Avail Drupal Development Services. Drupal is a tool that might just correct through a fact that there is the use of social sharing online as you wish. Be considerate and associate having an urge to contend with a social media sharing which makes you more bored rather than delighted: If you choose a one-time response then there is the code used in Drupal as follows: git clone --branch 7.x-1.x https://git.drupal.org/project/rrssb.git cd rrssb Checking the status you are reconsidering has differing views which come into being: Make sure you use git commit as what is a reinstatement like git add through compensation mentioning a git commit in use always. If you want you can go to a different branch and make reinstatements you want to accrue online, as you contend with: The particular switch you might be looking for is relenting and use of the code is there which can be: git branch -a git checkout [branchname] Social Sharing Buttons Have Determination To Waste Time In Drupal Another issue which is under contention is patching, you can make best of your efforts that you might put into action. If there isn’t any replication which you might have put into use you can connect with ease as a branch you want to be on retentively using code: git pull origin 7.x-1.x When you see the use of patch implementation there is a procedure you always get to use with concern and reason to decipher: git diff > [description]-[issue-number]-[comment-number].patch Do you want to have improvements to the patch because there is a way which will be a necessity to put into practice with code: git apply -v [patchname.patch] Make the procedure be retentive and accessible where there is the considerate use of better features that you might find compelling in Drupal design. Perceive where a commitment having better social sharing through buttons in the development process gives better results that you want to connect with in several ways when you are out to design through Drupal. Buttons In Drupal That Don’t Make You Get The Right Comeback To avoid a patch file in future uses you will be eager to commit online as there is need of certain coding you need to use has it as a solution in the program: git apply -v [patchname.patch] An accidental promise is necessary and you can get the right outlook of development means that seem to contend. Accept with a solution that has a reason for certainty which is pertinent and makes considerable cut cost processing online. See that there is the effective and essential use of buttons with development which has you accounting through deals that make sense. Avoidance accidentally is made through a code that you pertinently get to put in the program having uses at different situations such as: rm [patchname.patch] Certain changes can be put into practice having reliant access through considerable design features that make sense and are provisions to avail. Settle with a linking ascription and associate as a means to get the code you always employ. When there are uncommitted changes always getting used, there are ways to do it, especially as: Changes to a specific file are: git checkout [filename] Where a complete working mechanism works out there is the use of: git reset --hard When engaging with a software engineering partner for an outsourced project, it can be confusing to select the right pricing model. You have to balance both parties' risk and reward while ensuring that your outsourcing partner offers solutions, not guaranteeing that you get the most value for your investment. Fortunately – or perhaps not, considering your point of view – organizations have a number of pricing models to choose from when structuring their next outsourcing contract. We have collected the top four pricing models that provide maximum value for outsourced projects. IT Outsourcing Price Models for Your Business There are various kinds of outsourcing models, we’ve mentioned 5 of them which are the outsourcing trends 2019. You can pick the one suitable for your particular project and estimated expenditures. Fixed-Price Out of all the outsourcing strategies, fixed-price development agreement is known to be the most successful one. In this type of agreement, one needs to pay a particular amount of money for a specific job performed. This strategy works efficiently for short-term products whose development requires a few months or less. All the risks involved are put on the outsourcing partner as they wait to make payments until the project is done which consequently protects your budget also. It involves giving the required details of the future piece of software, website or mobile application-their primary features, design, etc. Since fixed price agreement cannot be readily modified, all requirements should be transparent to both the client and the team. In case, if any issue arises, you can work on a unique amendment to the current agreement specifying unmentioned points of the first, for instance, improved complexity of the project resulting in a price change, etc. Signing a fixed price contract also implies delegating control of the development to the representatives of the IT business. Usually, customers are not actively engaged in the process – instead, product managers take the head position. Time and Materials (T&M) T&M demands your outsourcing partner to bid for the project based on your demands, depth of scope and the amount of work that needs to be done. If your teams are good at outlining project requirements, this model is the right pick for you. In this way, your outsourcing partner will spend less time reworking issues, shortening your project overall time and saving you money. Be prepared to build effective project management teams to guarantee that the entire project is completed on time and on budget. You will need to keep a close eye on project outcomes and prevent costly project delays. Keep in mind that building a cushion can assist you if the project goes over time or budget. Time and material model of cooperation does not involve advanced specifications, so it can be used when all of the features of the future product cannot be explained at once. Unfortunately, due to the flexible nature of the cooperation, it is impossible to define the time required to complete the project. Dedicated team A dedicated team guarantees productivity and high-quality results. In this type of agreement, the whole focus of the developers will be on your specific project and will be interested in lengthy and productive collaboration. The dedicated team agreement counts among the global outsourcing trends. Furthermore, if you are working with a dedicated team, customers handle the development process on their own, assigning tasks and altering priorities. The outsourcing firm can only help with some organizational moments, but the entire process is with the owner of the product. It is mostly preferred for long-term and complicated projects as it will result in time and money expenditure on employing skilled staff and supplying them with the necessary tools. Incentive-based Pricing You can always choose to go for incentive-based pricing models for your next IT outsourcing. It is often an add-on to the more traditional models mentioned above, incentive-based models involve bonus payments to the outsourced developer as a reward for meeting performance objectives above and beyond what is written in the contract agreement. Incentives can help make up for constraints in fixed-price or T&M models to ensure that the motivations of your partner remain in line with your own. Adding complexity to your engagement model implies you will need to make sure that your partner delivers measurable advantages to your company. Many businesses end up paying partners for premium services that do not actually benefit them. Shared Risk-Reward Pricing Like the incentive-based model, this model contains a flat rate and maintain extra payments until your partner achieves particular goals. Here, however, customers and service suppliers generally share financing for the development of new products, enabling your partner to share in the incentives for a specified period of time. The Shared Risk-Reward Model promotes your partners to develop ideas that strengthen your business by sharing financial risk between both sides and, according to Gartner, assigning responsibilities to the partner mitigates some of the risks associated with new procedures, technology or models. End Note We’ve mentioned the most popular IT outsourcing engagement models; you can make use of any of them which fits best for your business. Remember, outsourcing is a partnership, and no party should enter into the debate trying to take advantage of the other. However, communicating your expectations obviously and selecting the right pricing model can go a long way to attaining success. As there are abilities that are inculcated with different ways that are used in programming which is concerning UI/UX design. The UX design or user experience design is a kind of more technical or meant design that includes preferential logical and optimising means against input which makes the core of a strategic process. Another UI design or User Interface design is an optimistic kind of online plan you want to connect with. Use of different skills is what need to be implemented where strategy features are relevant and make you user-friendly. An implementation on tablets or mobiles is relevant and can be inculcated where there are necessary access and consideration that makes it more sensible for applications. Get in touch with Professional web Development Company. Where an effective and essential touch screen means it is always a key issue because there is a development pattern that gets set out. Seek through an imperative resource, a more convincing method that is implemented in UI/UX design using different methods. A prototype design which seems to have a strong hold on most aspects is related to features that improve your skills with the proposal. Abilities UI/UX Designers Have Which Makes Them Good Programmers An ability to make a project prototype is a way to have initiation in the design process that you are inculcating and take part in. One way to see the way you intend to look rather than get results that you want to show has better responsiveness. It will be easy to attain a designer job in UI/UX when you have the right expertise that is acceptable and makes pertinent implementation. Requirements to implement responsive design has you connecting to multiple devices together having an expertise which makes sense. Use of design capabilities is responsive and more connective with abilities to inculcate through different skills that are a need. Very concerned, the use of design and implementation is inculcation as a requirement whenever handling. Improving a relationship between a service provider and client makes it a reliable experience you can use. An activity to plan and come into action through an organised means is relevant and a more usable means you need to avail. Comprehensive knowledge about the way design is usually carried out has reason to approve as it makes you a designer you desire to be. Development At Peak With UI/UX Design Proper user research needs to be implored so that there is effective and worth it usage you want and implore with necessities. Seek the right kind of abilities that are part of a contentious design program that has the aim to recognise with several implementable tasks. Another ability is to make the customer get convinced is through proper inception and association you require. People who are affluent UI/UX designers also have a firsthand ability and access you might be used in most ways. Implementation of drop down menus online are processes you always connect with to struggle and seek a design process you implement. The software keeps getting updated every other year, so there is need to have revision through consistency you require having a regular skill. Making a skilful individual design through UI/UX has several important improvements in abilities that need to be shared when implementing. Use of proper skills and means to approve through advanced design patterns is what gets consideration in the development and the field of UI/UX design. More attainable use is with regular online design capabilities that improve ways there has been contrivances as a proper tool makes the process worthwhile. To update about more information in the design process and implementation, there is apprehension which is always adopted. Make yourself the designer you want to become irrespective of difficulties it holds. Leading telecommunications services provider O2 is reportedly planning to launch 5G mobile network in October. The company seeks to launch the service in other major cities of the UK, later expanding to a total of 50 towns and cities by 2020. O2 will be the last and only of the UK’s network coverage providers to unveil 5G, who will do so without using equipment from the beleaguered Chinese telecoms equipment maker Huawei. Additionally, O2 underwent a trial of Huawei’s 5G radio access network kit at cell towers in the United Kingdom before choosing to go for competitive products from two retailers it had already used to deliver 4G. O2’s chief executive Mark Evans said that “we respect all three operators, they were thorough in their submissions.” “But we were convinced that the best choices for us at this time are our current partners, which are Ericsson and Nokia,” he added. The announcement comes the same time that the UK officially deferred a decision on whether to bar or let Huawei be used within any of the UK’s 5G networks. The US has been exerting pressure on the government to eliminate the Chinese firm demanding that it represents a risk to national security, but Huawei denies this. PHP is a frequently used language and is intended for different purposes especially web development as a tool and more importantly for various web growth you can implement. It is close to code as C, C++ as well as pearl, which are mainstream languages used in implementing a variety of projects you want to make. Certain unique features are found in coding done in this language making a unique programming style and result to be considerate when you work with this tool. Several features are there in the language and seem perfect to get a variety of implications to code with ease in getting use of loop-throughs in programming. Making it a unique language, PHP development has a variety of basic code imprinting’s having use with valuable developers who are interested in programming. PHP is one of the first scripting languages and makes valuable packages which are insinuation through a variety you put into action, having validation. Code written in PHP is embedded in HTML as a markup language that gets to be one people use in web development. You can use the database as a secondary platform which it connects to, such as Oracle and Sybase that makes it an efficient coding tool. When compiled as Apache model it seems to show the lesser code you might be searching for when programming through PHP. When tested this language makes more complicated calculations in a short amount of time. Features PHP Language Has With Its Implementation PHP also supports a lot of protocols such as in networking like LDAP. PHP4, POP3 and IMAP as a commonly used network operation that provides full-scale operations online. Also, n-tier development is mutual and gets you to have a unique model you find surety of building in various situations. To compile qualitative code, you get error writing facilities used with and debugging your programs easily. The language works with Microsoft Windows or Linux whatever the operating system is and has benefits to apply as a user and make the consistent flow of programming online. A server or normally oriented system can be sufficient to get you to program with PHP as a usable script language. Where performance is put into practice, use of tools such as PHP has best results you certainly convey on. As a high-level language and syntax friendly implementation, PHP turns out to be a satisfactory programming platform used. With know-how of basics, there is sufficient programming practice you get when you use this language for medium and large-scale project development. Functioning with expediency and having a consistent acclimation, satiating results always show up with programming and fluency through an HTML base platform. Making Inception In PHP As A Successful Language Features that amount up to 3000, there are basics which concurrently make results to show what has shown PHP to be an important language. Having met a million developers mark in the past decade, there are still an improving number of people who are programming in PHP very quickly and with consistency. It has become a viable and reliable language and can be perfected where there is support for sites that provide millions of tasks daily as a consistent want to solicit and make perceptual use as a reason to contrive PHP. PHP scripts altered into HTML code through a sample code such as: <html> <head> <title> Hello World PHP </title> </head> <body> <p> <?php echo 'Hello World!'; ?> </p> </body> </html> A PHP comment that ha s <? as well as ?> to get the start and stop of the text line mentioned in the HTML code of this PHP program you want to work with. An IDE is an integrated environment and there are several differences that you might be searching for when using it instead of the code editors normally provided. The programming mode of working has several advantages to it because of several things you will want to take note of. Use of betterment in development makes the programming mode to be relative where the use of editors is less common. Use of IDE provides you with the location where you not only write the codes but can do more things such as debugging and compiling. Use of special access that is there with IDE’s is relevant when there is need to access programming functions that need to get established. On the other hand, the code editors are several and there are never the same means in any other way of the establishment. Trying to edit all types of files make relevant accreditation and there is no reward for making a quick and unnecessary code outlining not looking at the other known facts. Be conceptual and make pertinent use of IDE’s as a programming environment that makes sensible use. Programmers use notepad or text pad as an editor for the programming line of code which usually gets implemented but the original process is through an IDE. Development Environment And Code Editors Lots of benefits are there and acceptable through the use of the development environment as there can be a selective arrangement put into practice. Programming in PHP, for instance, has importance’s that you will need to connect with when making acclamations online. Beneficial as it is there are several loopbacks that will get you to program in a universal environment that you take part with to put into implementation. Search on the web and make perfect use of considerable differences that come about when a normal IDE process is used instead of text editors. Search online and persist where the use of different tools in programming are put into practice. IDE work with a set of tools making sensible provisions you might seem to recollect gets you natural access. Most IDE’s are connected to a particular language or framework that is the way programming works and should be carried out. Similar frameworks are, .NET and related ones using XCode, RubyMine for Ruby, IntelliJ for Java for Apple frameworks when there is a need for development. See with consistent meaning and contention that you are confident to accrue with and select right code of working. Other Code Editors As They Differ From IDE Other editors are just simplistic text editors which are available in the normal Windows working environment but the use of IDE’s seem to serve the purpose which lies at hand. An editor is labelled as a tool that edits texts always getting used, but there are several differences which are consistently seen when practising a more comprehensive process used as it lies straight with IDE’s having original programming interfaces. Implementation of an Integrated development environment has considerable advantages but when you get down to using several modes of operation with programming made in a variating mode as always is implementable. An ease in operating with text editors has a use of several and different languages which you use on this one editor but there is a use that is universal and considered helpful when you get particular inception to get programming as an enjoyable profession. If you work with a particular IDE there are groundbreaking uses that are accepted and make concern to reduce formality having intention to get programming work under implementation. Associate through a particular editor that is used when there is no particular and given one used with a programming platform you are working with. Make use of best efforts and be assured to use a compilation tool that is a sensible solution. Javascript was created by Brendan Eich, who was an employee at Netscape Communications Corporation at that time. He began to develop a scripting language which was initially called as LiveScript with the purpose of utilizing it both in the browser and on the server. Thus, the Netscape moved into a specific development cooperation with Sun Microsystems for a comprehensive implementation of LiveScript in time for release. Netscape altered the name LiveScript to JavaScript in order to take advantage of Java as a new Internet catchword. Thus, JavaScript became one of the most necessary and must-have from that fact. Netscape released the version 1.1 in Netscape Navigator 3.0. because the JavaScript 1.0 was such a hit. Further, Microsoft was confident to throw its hat into the ring as it released Internet Explorer 3.0 and along with a JavaScript-clone called JScript. It was decided simply because to evade any likely licensing issues which can be caused with Netscape. The necessary step was taken here for Microsoft into the dominion of Web browsers which is now a date that lives in notoriety for Netscape. But it also signified a key step taken in the development of JavaScript as a common language. Moreover, three various JavaScript versions were released as follows: JavaScript in Netscape Navigator JScript in Internet Explorer CEnvi in ScriptEase. Here, JavaScript had no specific standards in leading its syntax or features unlike C language and quite many other programming languages. These three various versions have only highlighted this problem as with industry fears escalating and it was obvious that the language must become consistent. JavaScript 1.1 has however succumbed to the European Computer Manufacturers Association (ECMA) as an inspiring application in 1997. Thus, the Technical Committee was apportioned for regulating the syntax and semantics of a universal purpose, cross-platform, vendor-neutral scripting language. The programmers from Netscape, Sun, Microsoft, Borland, and some other organizations with interest met for months to get prominent results out from ECMA-262 for the future scripting. So as to use it as a standard describing new script language which was named to be as ECMAScript. Since then, the Web browsers have tried, with changeable aspects of success and failure, so as to use ECMAScript as one of the bases for their JavaScript implementations. The fifth standard and latest version was released on December 3, 2009, and it was one of the approved editions just came over a year ago. It includes an enormous range of countless additions, and different sorts of such starts ups to show up in different browsers. ECMAScript Editions Given below are the ECMAScript Editions which were launched since the beginning of Java till present: Year Name Description 1997 ECMAScript 1 First Edition. 1998 ECMAScript 2 Editorial changes done only. 1999 ECMAScript 3 Regular Expressions added. (fully supported in all browsers.) Try/catch added. ECMAScript 4 Was never released. 2009 ECMAScript 5 Strict mode added. (fully supported in all modern browsers.) JSON support added. 2010 ECMAScript 5 Also called as JavaScript 1.8.5. 2011 ECMAScript 5.1 Editorial changes done. 2015 ECMAScript 6 Classes and modules added. (partially supported in all modern browsers.) 2016 ECMAScript 7 Exponential operator added (**). (poorly supported in all browsers.) Array.prototype.includes added. 2017 ECMAScript 8 Advanced to stage 4 An implementation of websites through the use of Artificial Intelligence is up and running and has been put into use in Tel Aviv, Israel. AI is a division of computer science that has to do with intelligence displayed by machines and goes into deep science with it. The Science that has made progression in the past decade is perfection and complacency which remains to be used. Relegating the technological and robotics world now comes down to make technology as it perfects through robotics. Throughout the age of computers and the developing fields, there has been faultlessness which has met the eyes of designers. Willing to use voice communication which came into being through Eliza software has been in existence for more than one and a half decades. Another issue of recognizing through an optical means is never a part of artificial intelligence but sound recognition and understanding are there at hand. With the launching of Wix Artificial Design and Intelligence (ADI) has shown a breakthrough in technology. Looking to be a rare introduction in the field, there has been a complimentary improvement you will see with it. Artificial intelligence is a common implication which you will want to condescend and see the use of it in self-driving cars, content delivery networks and understanding human speech. Use of different devices to sense how certain features need to get examined are the basic purpose of artificial intelligence in most ways. A combination of mathematics and philosophy has to do with the implication of computer science as a notable common feature. Latest Trends In Website Development Through Technology This ADI provides a comprehensive improvement and recognition of data that 85 million users recognize with the technology. What you will find most explicit is that it gathers information online and makes efficient use you will need. Making best and more conservative implementation of content that needs to be placed on the website is through this technology named Wix. A continuous implementation of this transfer of content is seen since the beginning to an end which has development done easily. It is the ADI that knows how to develop websites making compulsive integration and continuation of web development. As you might seem to use it, Wix provides cloud development to make HTML5 sites as well as mobile sites you require. Almost 100 Million users are there who are continuously using the site for more marked development and improved web design. As there are premium and freemium models to get access to community forums, e-commerce, social plug-ins, e-mail marketing and contact forms. Seeing a variety that you might seem to connect with, has several advancements in working. Easy Designing Through A More Advanced Way In Web Development Achsaf is the Wix ADI and is the first web development tool that has been given the name and is implied with Artificial Intelligence applications. After every other season, Wix gets newer versions of the developer such as HTML5 that there in use. It is the improved version and gets its publicity as a new and more remarkable web developing tool which comes to good use. The perfect use of options that has artificial intelligence implications is through content which gets read from beginning to completion. Once the website gets completed a conclusion with themes as well as other design features are then designed with requirements. A query is always there at hand and the consistent questioning leads it to have conclusive application to website development. Asked a few questions it could lead you to make a home page of websites you are into designing for your personal or commercial use. When there is a combination of artificial intelligence and algorithms that make easy development through a design strategy put into action is through algorithms. Where there is a right intrusion a contention from a series of choices mark in billions making the select ones as a used choice in website development. If there is no immediate response to the Wix ADI simulator there are still a variety of things you will want to look at making a more comprehensive selection of a design strategy. The simulator accesses information through the web and gets right data in the right location on the designed website you are making. Whenever there is a loss of password, use of inputting fields like username and email as well as user question are a few things you can take into consideration. See that the email you have entered is a legitimate one and you have provided it through a sequence of actions with which you work. You can get a sound and immediate response that has to do with effective usage of accredited websites such as www.yahoo.com or www.google.mail.com. You as a user can use a temporary password and get a resetting you will always consider and make use with ease. It is a two-step process which you will need to go through, eventually clicking on the link that gets you to the change password page. Authentic change of password makes a correct alteration of passwords with a new password still getting changed after you have named it. See to it that there is a permanent email address that you associate with all your accounts making pertinent modification when there is a requirement for it. See to it that effective differences that are accountable through the assertive use of transferring the password to different locations can get it recovered. If in case you don’t get an email address promptly, you can make resolution by placing the answer of the secret question in the recollection box. See to it that there is indispensable and processed username reshuffling that gets you to alter your password through the username when you need it. Seek through the password recovery options to click on the forgot password link and start the processing of retaining it. The simple clicks and movement from one page to another make sense. If You Forget Your Password What Is The Solution You Can Use? If you don’t remember your password or there are doubts that you get led to, you can make a few checks once you sign in through a forgot password link. Make a salient move by checking into your records whether there is any question that you might have saved online. Once you have an idea of the password base question, make a selection of the secret question and input values inside. Get a more acceptable process to recover your username and password and see that there are correct fields inputted in the process. The user can enter a username and then strike on the forgot password key that helps you manoeuvre through a few steps to use and access the website you want to be on. Searching online can be a good solution but it is advised that there is a know-how of the exact values that fits into the equation when you want to recover your password. If there is an option of entering a secret question instead of the username there are consistent options you will always want to consider. The different fields that are inputted are to be read such as password change requests with columns ID, Time and UserID. When there are changes that are always clicked on, the change in field is accounted with and there is a record you might have started. How To Make The Password Get Recovered Through Forget Password? Making the password to change can be led by different reasons such as logging in from an unknown IP address or reentering the password a few times incorrectly thereby leading to a warning email sent to a known email address. Select a password that you know you will remember and enter it into the password change option you make use of. Prefer not to lose any important information you might have entered through the password change process. See to it that you make considerations and avail through a password check the best way to get resettlement of passwords within a specified amount of time. Be consistent throughout the logging in processes to enter the correct usernames and passwords and never let out the password to others unless there is an emergency. A programming language that efficiently makes web applications and is considered salient of all in different ways. You can judge the authenticity of this language and still see important features it usually has and which you always make. After PHP 5 there is PHP 7 and 7.1 which has been released with more applications promoting web development. Most of those who want to make advanced projects revert to PHP 7 and are happier with different applications that it has. Simple coding becomes what you might be looking for and are consistent with its development in most ways. Relation of a programming application to another version is done but the compatibility is always different. You can make certainty through different procedures and adhere to online rules in development in most ways with programming tools at hand. In PHP 7 the first return type feature is what is looked at which makes different data types you want to return. An example is as follows: <?php function add($a, $b) : float{ return $a + $b; } This function mentions the float type and still returns a null variable which you can return as a programming character declaration. The default parameter and functions are returned in this procedure as follows: <?php function test($param = null) { if(!is_null($param)) { return $param; } return null; } This is placed in the situation when you want to know if the returned variable is null or not. Instantiation of the Nullable type can be perfected as: <?php function test($param = null) { if(!is_null($param)) { return $param; } return null; } Implementation In PHP 7 And 7.1 For Web Development Mentioning a few features there is a consistent approval that you will always get when you use the programming lines of code in PHP 7 and 7.1. A selective platform is what you can recurrently boost the performance of ways you program having a steady approach in most ways. A use of the void function has been introduced in PHP 7.1. The subroutines are as follows: <?php function setkey($key) : void { $this->key = $key; } ?> Common means to perfect the void function applicability having pertinence with rare chances to transfer values of keys onwards is implied. Yet the syntax [ ] can make clearing of arrays in most ways through procedures like: <?php $data = [ [1, 'TestB'], [2, 'TestC'], ]; [0,'TestA'] = $data[0]; foreach ($data as [$id, $name]) { // logic here with $id and $name } ?> Make the improvement through use of square brackets you will need to implement and have arrangements where clearing of arrays is pertinent. Array structure changes get a much accountable necessity to make programming modifications you might be looking for. Features You Will Want To Know Of Php 7 And 7.1? A more admired use of class constants with its instantiations are remedy with presumptive and correctional means to associate in debugging. Availing of access modifiers has use of constants which you understand makes the correlation that can be shown in the procedure below: <?php class ConstDemo { const PUBLIC_CONST_A = 1; public const PUBLIC_CONST_B = 2; protected const PROTECTED_CONST = 3; private const PRIVATE_CONST = 4; } ?> The public and Protected declaration is a common site and use of the modifiers are still an implication you need to put in use. A callable Pseudo has a new set of ways to contend with development features you will use in the code snippet as follows: <?php function iterator(iterable $iter) { foreach ($iter as $val) { // } } ?> These are some features that have made PHP 7.1 look more user prone and worth the try when you are consistent and want to get programming leaps which are practical requirements. Make an understood relation and persist to account with a means to write user-friendly code you will surely like to use. DevOps is becoming an overloaded buzzed word which has different terminology for different people. DevOps has gained popularity over the past few years. So what exactly DevOps is? What are these two words Dev and Ops? Let me share with you a detailed guide to understanding what DevOps is and the list of operations responsibilities included. Operations Responsibilities IT Buying and Security Installation of Server hardware & OS Server Monitoring Backup & Disaster Recovery Planning Asset Tracking Manage Active Directory, Phone systems, and networks Change control Share Development & Operations Includes Software Deployments Application Support These responsibilities have changed over the past few years. Virtualization and cloud have helped a lot in simplifying buying decisions, installation, and configuration. Let’s move on to the OPS part and learn what duties, a developer should responsible for Involvement in the selection for application stack Configure & Deploy virtual and cloud server. Deploying applications Monitoring applications and system health. Fixes application problems. Developers, whoever takes these responsibilities in their hands can now deploy and support their applications more quickly. DevOps process and tools help to eliminate the distance between the teams and brings more flexibility in the business. Now let’s see what the operation team do? Managing the hardware infrastructure Configure & monitor networking Enforce policies around backup, DR, security, compliance etc Assistance in monitoring the system. Active directory management Asset tracking The workload of the above all tasks vary according to the company sizes. The operations tasks become more complex in larger enterprises companies requiring specialization and dedicated personnel to complete the tasks. Whereas in small and mid-size companies, the IT manager and system administrators can handle these all. DevOps is evolving, allowing operation team to fully focus on the infrastructure and IT policies while giving more power to the developers. DevOps brings more agility, better efficiency and ultimately a higher level of performance and services to their customers. So we are done understanding what DevOps is. Now let’s move on and read some foundational concepts of DevOps: 1: Where did DevOps come from? 2: What are the challenges DevOps solves? 3: What are the goals of DevOps? 4: What are the values of DevOps? 5: What are the tools of DevOps? DevOps Origination DevOps, the infant term of agile software development, originated in order to keep moving with the increased software velocity. DevOps is the IT mastereo which encourages some basic steps between the software developers and IT operations for communication, collaboration, integration, and automation to improve and enhance the speed and quality of the delivered software. DevOps, the Challenger DevOps fixes certain problems by creating and establishing collaborative cross-functional teams which share the responsibility to maintain the system on which the software runs and also prepare the software to run with best quality feedback and automation issues. DevOps Goals DevOps goals include: Improved deployment frequency To achieve faster time to market Less failure rate to new releases Short lead time between fixes Improve mean time to recovery DevOps Values There are basically two DevOps values, one is DevOps Culture and the other one is DevOps tools. DevOps is often defined as increased collaboration, shared responsibility, autonomous team, improved quality, valued feedback and increased automation. Whereas the DevOps tools include configuration management, test, and build systems, deploying the application, version control and monitoring tools. DevOps Tools Source Code Repository, Build Server, Configuration Management, Virtual Infrastructure, Test Automation, these are some key tools and practices for DevOps functions We hope this article will answer your all questions regarding DevOps and has given you a brief insight for this new innovation in the IT industry. The web site movements are common features that always get used and are ways to move from one page to another on the online web. Most visited locations are least judged and are more or less accountable when you get through a page every now and then. Website navigation makes a more concerned use through movements within the website having full-scale use in different ways. Seeing the navigation features as acceptable such as movement from one page to another is done at a quick pace to see the website. Make a use of the online website and see a going through sets of web pages until the one you want to skim past. Information architecture is an organisation of data on the web and deduction you are assured to make. Use of the website lies with the implementation of information architecture as it supports site navigation in online and dependable means. A purpose that is there for information architecture is a choice of what you want a user to do and what users understand as relevant in most situations where there is a debate for you. Benefits Of Information Architecture To The Website You Operate The structure or way there is an organisation in ways that are used to represent and tag what you see as important implications. See traffic that needs to get analysed as there is data that might have a connection on the online site. Simple personal data and user information make you get an information analysis that is the need. Looking at maps that truly define site structure makes a reliable declaration and is the way to look at the site in different situations. Seeing two parts that are products and services makes your site look in place with issues put into use. You can also rename a section so that it is helpful for the user in more circumstances. It takes a little time if you make a logical outcome of the page layout you will want to use. The latest information can be adopted when you see a review through a list of aspects you always want to contend through. The intention of information architecture is to balance what is done by the user at different situations. Implementation Of Information Architecture And Its Pros To make perfection and understanding requirements there are to the website are more compulsive agreements and can always be implicated. A first sight what you do is get a mapping out of the client website with a means to always access and perfect easily. Since the process is time-consuming and slow there are relevant decisive resolutions you use online. Though a process of information collection is long and tedious there can be recollection in more situations that you need to accrue as. Information on the structure of the information architecture is still a need in most situations when you want consideration. An SEO search engine gets helpful recollection in situations where there is mapping done in most situations. To get to share information into a map seems more efficient and essentially encompasses the way the site operates. You can map the information architecture through Microsoft word which makes a worth it deal as a way there is mapping which is laid out for a website under consideration. When there are speculations about a lower ranking that a website is suffering there is necessitation and a self-confident determination you can make use of. A link and structure are always built and there are corrections with the website and its improvement on search engines you associate to. Make rectification through an information architecture which relies on a means to accredit and correct ranking of a good running website. People visit several websites daily to fulfill their required needs or to get their things done in personal or commercially. They commonly visit their required sites by searching the stuff through Google.com which is of course a reliable and the easiest way to access the website. There are several ways to attract people for visiting any specific website by using creative ways like advertising or generating a predefined path to drive the visitors right to the website. This can simply be done through prominent strategies that will drive the visitors directly to specific website through the searched content by visitors. This can be carried out by using or creating resourceful, catchy and meaningful content to attract the attention of the visitors. Moreover, by making pertinent fascination and to show that the website development is something that provides appropriate consideration for the visitors for which they can visited he website. Use of Appropriate Keywords A good site is easily tracked and visited by more and more visitors through a selection of a good and searchable keywords related to the website’s products. This way; the website gets easy keyword ranking of the website on different search engines. The keywords also play vital role in attracting the attention of the visitors and create easy access to website by their selection of keywords for which they come to look for their desired needs. The keywords are effective in spreading the concept of the website and works quite efficiently when people search with related keywords as well. The use of specific density of the targeted keywords create a succeeding element to drive attention in the content to define the worth of the product for the visitors. Promotion Over Social Platforms One of the best and creative ways to promote the websites with a catchy and attractive content for the visitors which can get viral among the viewers who use social platforms so that the website can be renowned publically. The content plays a prominent role in defining or marketing the products listed on the website. The entire details reflect a perfect overview for the visitors to let know what the website is about. Thus, the website gets social signals and huge visitors check it out for something that was marketed through social media platforms like Facebook, Twitter, & LinkedIn etc. which are mostly used platforms by people. Otherwise, the same website will never reach out to anyone and will remain just a worthless entity somewhere on the internet and no one will see it or have any knowledge of the reason for the development of the website. So, a website that is especially designed for the online representation of any or specific product(s) may get fruitful attraction on the internet and people get what they need from the website. Innovative & Error Free Website Development That’s for sure, any website required publicity over internet and which is the most necessary and important factor to market and also present it in the most innovative ways to inspire the visitors. It should be designed according to the physical criteria of search engines especially to the predefined criteria of Google.com which is considered the most across the world. It should also contain the most advanced and new features so that the visitors may easily use or jump to their required pages without any difficulty. The use of specific pages should be created like about us, products, news, blogs and contact page for easy contacting to the site owner is something very import to focus while developing the website. Every page should work instantly without creating problem to the visitors or else they will leave never to return back. So, the website should be checked for any error(s) from time to time for driving continuous visitors to the website. Since, we have witnessed that 2016 passed greatly. A large number of technologies and trends get introduced in the past years. Like, Docker v1.12 released and AWS got some powerful instances types. Moreover, the hybrid cloud (both private and public) became the first choice for enterprises and many more trends. Here, I am going to share your some latest DevOps trends of 2017 in this blog post. But, let me give you an introduction to DevOps. DevOps actually serves the collaboration of Development and Operation team to work together. Like, it becomes one unit rather than working the old traditional way. Although, the Agile methodology did great where the development and operation team worked individually. So, it serves to develop any software or fulfill the services. Ideally, the old traditional method consume time. It lacked the understanding between the team of software development, leading it to customer dissatisfaction. Almost, we are now adopting DevOps as culture for more fast, efficient and reliable software delivery. DevOps Features Here, are some DevOps features: Maximizes the speed of delivery Advances customer experience Make use of automated tools on each phase Got more stable operating environments Has improved the collaboration and communication. Enables fast flow for production DevOps consists of 5 C’s which gives high productivity, less bugs, enhanced and communication. Probably, it provides quick way to resolve issues, more reliable and much more. The 5 C’s of DevOps are: Integration Continuous Testing Continuous Delivery Continuous Deployment Continuous Monitoring Continuous Key Trends of DevOps Microservices Since, the name sounds as microservices becomes an architectural way to develop the complex applications. So, it has the ability to create smaller modules through division. Precisely, Microservices can help the developers to decide how to use, design, which language to choose and platform to run and deploy. Some advantages of microservices: They can develop in various programming languages. Errors in any module or microservice can easily detect saving time. Microservice and modules easy to manage. Updating anything becomes easy now. Just push it on the particular microservice. or else you have to update the whole application. Scaling up and down of any particular microservice without effecting any other microservice is now easy. Microservice leads to the increment in productivity. If any of the module is down, the application remains unaffected. Containers Although, containers create virtual environment, allows to run multiple application or OS without interruption. Another, container which one can deploy the application quickly and consistently. Because, the containers have their own CPU, memory, network resources and block I/O. Therefore, it shares with the kernel of host operating system. Thus, lightweight can run directly within host machine. So, you will find some advantages of Containers presented below: Easy to share a container Manage the life cycle of containers with the Docker’s platform It gives consistent computation environment They can run multiple separate application in a single shared OS Container Orchestration Due to, the automation, arrangement, coordination and management of containers is container orchestration. Finally, various features of container orchestration include: Cluster Management Also, the task of a developer limits to launch a cluster of container instances. Surely, it allots the tasks which requires to run. Yet, the management of all the containers perform the tasks through orchestration. Task Definition It allows the developer to define the task where they require to specify the number of containers. Therefore, they fulfill the task and the dependencies. Moreover, one task can launch through single task definition. Programmatic Control Although, simple API calls now you can register and de-register tasks, launch and stop Docker containers. Load Balancing Seems like, load balancing actually helps in distributing traffic across the containers or deployment. Monitoring In addition, you can now monitor your CPU and memory usage of the running tasks. Hence, it also gets notified if scaling requires through containers. Consequently, some tools used for container orchestration (both paid and open source) are Kubernetes, Docker Swan, Google Containers and Microsoft Containers. Precisely, it becomes clear now and evident that 2017 is going to face a lot more changes, new and innovative ways for DevOps. What is DevOps? Read here... Bringing you here, the most demanding tutorial as how to create PHP web app in Azure. Azure web apps gives highly scalable and self-patching web hosting service. In this tutorial you will learn how to deploy a PHP app to Azure web apps. We’ll be creating the web app using Azure CLI and will use GIT to deploy the sample PHP code to the web app. The below steps can be used in Mac, Linux, and Windows. Once the essential requirements such as PHP and GIT are installed, it will take about five minutes to complete all the steps. Get Free Help From Professional PHP Development Company. You can create a free Azure account if don't have the Azure subscription before beginning. Launch Azure Cloud Shell. The Azure cloud shell is a free bash shell which can be run directly within the Azure account. It has Azure CLI already installed in it and configured so that can be use with your account. Click on the Cloud Shell button on the upper right of the Azure portal in the menu. The button will launch an interactive shell which can be use to run all the steps told in this topic. Run az --version to find the version of the CLI you are using. Download the Sample In the terminal window, run these following commands to copy the sample app repository to the local machine. git clone https://github.com/Azure-Samples/php-docs-hello-world Now change to the directory that contains the sample code. cd php-docs-hello-world Run the App Locally. First run the application locally by opening terminal window and use the PHP command to launch the pre-built PHP web server. php -S localhost:8080 Open up any web browser and type the following local host address http://localhost:8080. You will see a HELLO WORLD message displayed on the screen from the sample app. Exit the web server by pressing Ctrl+c Log in to Azure Use the Azure CLI 2.0 to create the resources required to host the app in Azure. Log in to the Azure subscription by the AZ login command and follow the directions displayed on the screen. az login Configure a deployment user With the AZ web app deployment user command, create the deployment credentials. A deployment user is necessary for FTP and Local GIT deployment. The use name and password will be different from the Azure subscriptions credentials. az webapp deployment user set --user-name <username> --password <password> Replace the username and password with new one. The name must be unique and the password must be eight characters long. It is a one time process and the deployment user created can be used for all Azure deployments. Create a Resource Group With the AZ group create command, create a resource group. A resource group is actually a container which posses Azure resources such as web apps, databases and stored accounts to manage and deploy. az group create --name myResourceGroup --location westeurope Create the resource by following the above example. Generally the resources created in a region near you. Run the az appservice list-location command to see the supported locations for the Azure web app. Create an Azure App Service Plan With the az appservice plan create command, create an azure app service. The app service plan specifies the location, features and size of the web server. App Service plans define: Region (for example: North Europe, East US, or Southeast Asia) Instance size (small, medium, or large) Scale count (1 to 20 instances) SKU (Free, Shared, Basic, Standard, or Premium) The below example creates an app service plan in free pricing. az appservice plan create --name myAppServicePlan --resource-group myResourceGroup --sku FREE After the app service plan be created, the AZURE CLI will show some information like this { "adminSiteName": null, "appServicePlanName": "myAppServicePlan", "geoRegion": "West Europe", "hostingEnvironmentProfile": null, "id": "/subscriptions/0000-0000/resourceGroups/myResourceGroup/providers/Microsoft.Web/serverfarms/myAppServicePlan", "kind": "app", "location": "West Europe", "maximumNumberOfWorkers": 1, "name": "myAppServicePlan", < JSON data removed for brevity. > "targetWorkerSizeId": 0, "type": "Microsoft.Web/serverfarms", "workerTierName": null } Create a Web App With the AZ webapp create command, create a web app in the app service plan. The web app will provide a hosting space for the code and a URL to view the deployed app. az webapp create --name <app_name> --resource-group myResourceGroup --plan myAppServicePlan In the above command, replace the app name with some unique name. Once the web app is created, the Azure CLI will show below information. { "availabilityState": "Normal", "clientAffinityEnabled": true, "clientCertEnabled": false, "cloningInfo": null, "containerSize": 0, "dailyMemoryTimeQuota": 0, "defaultHostName": "<app_name>.azurewebsites.net", "enabled": true, "enabledHostNames": [ "<app_name>.azurewebsites.net", "<app_name>.scm.azurewebsites.net" ], "gatewaySiteName": null, "hostNameSslStates": [ { "hostType": "Standard", "name": "<app_name>.azurewebsites.net", "sslState": "Disabled", "thumbprint": null, "toUpdate": null, "virtualIp": null } < JSON data removed for brevity. > } Type the following address on any browser to check your newly created web app. http://<app_name>.azurewebsites.net A web app in Azure has been created. Configure local GIT Deployment With the az webapp deployment source configuration-git command, configure local Git deployment to the web app. For quickstart, deploy by using local Git. To deploy content to web app, app service supports offers several ways such as FTP, Local Git, GitHub and Bitbucket az webapp deployment source config-local-git --name <app_name> --resource-group myResourceGroup --query url --output tsv Replace app name with the web app’s name in the above command. The output format will be : https://<username>@<app_name>.scm.azurewebsites.net:443/<app_name>.git The username is the deployment username which you have created previously. Save the above URL to use in the next steps. Push to Azure from Git git remote add azure <URI from previous step> Add remote Azure to the local GIT repository, Push to the Azure remote to deploy the app. Ensures the password you entered is the deployment user password not the password you used to log in to the Azure portal. git push azure master The above command will display following information. Counting objects: 2, done. Delta compression using up to 4 threads. Compressing objects: 100% (2/2), done. Writing objects: 100% (2/2), 352 bytes | 0 bytes/s, done. Total 2 (delta 1), reused 0 (delta 0) remote: Updating branch 'master'. remote: Updating submodules. remote: Preparing deployment for commit id '25f18051e9'. remote: Generating deployment script. remote: Running deployment command... remote: Handling Basic Web Site deployment. remote: Kudu sync from: '/home/site/repository' to: '/home/site/wwwroot' remote: Copying file: '.gitignore' remote: Copying file: 'LICENSE' remote: Copying file: 'README.md' remote: Copying file: 'index.php' remote: Ignoring: .git remote: Finished successfully. remote: Running post deployment command(s)... remote: Deployment successful. To https://<app_name>.scm.azurewebsites.net/<app_name>.git cc39b1e..25f1805 master -> master Browse to the App Type the below URL to browse the deployed application on any web browser. http://<app_name>.azurewebsites.net Congratulations! you have deployed the PHP app to App service. There are several marketing strategies that are used conveniently to run different businesses successfully. One can find certain elements that boost up businesses and making it run in a certain manner as one practices. Today, a large number of people advertise their small businesses through Facebook and share their products and upcoming promotions. They try their best to market their businesses throughout the world or across their targeted regions and get consistent attention. Unluckily, small businesses get so involved in planning their daily marketing execution such as creating a worthy website, using a format to spread through emails, tweeting, advertising, or even writing blogs and so on. But, they do not take the time to work on the specific decisions that can expand the performance of their methods. There is a simple strategy and all you need to make is a specific procedure that works excellent. The marketing strategy is of course the base to create awareness, to generate interest, to close new sales and also to continue customer engagement. The digital marketing strategy will surely serve to guide any company culture, the products, services and the pricing as well. There are several things to ponder when crafting an effective strategy for market products. There are few significant strategies that have served and supported quite many small business groups to develop and flourish their revenue and generate the stability in their businesses. There are few key points of marketing strategy to get flourish small businesses efficiently. Targeted Customer The first marketing strategy is to figure out the targeted customer whom do you want to serve. The entire focus should be on a well-defined target which might make you uncomfortable initially. But, through proper follow ups from time to time with the customers; one can easily set a prominent business relationship with the clients. So, it is simply the best to spend time and money at the specific areas where one can find targeted customers and thus the efforts will be repaying back inform success. Benefits That’s for sure; to gain productive results one should clearly describe the unique benefits of specific products or services that the targeted customer actually looking for, but it should not be a list of all the features. Basically, the customers’ main need is to get their sales done and generate their revenues. So, it is necessary to keep focus their needs and provide the best benefits along with successful services. The Competition When we talk about business, one should also think about the competition. Because the most of the business tycoons have never precisely demarcated their real competition is. This annoys the buying choices and create the marketing efforts feebler. One should precisely be vibrant in own mind what the biggest competition is there. Reliable for Customer Here, one thing is also necessary that the marketing strategy should be reliable for the customers. It is also one of the significant factors of all that the strategy must be reliable for the customers. So, it let know the customers just one or two things which define their main needs and to decide whether the prices are cheaper or if the shipment can be done faster etc. Mobile technology has been serving people in different aspects and one of major role taken by the mobile is to support small or large size businesses. Mobile phones are rapidly involved in flourishing the businesses and providing an easy platform. Mobile is providing favorable support in communication and connectivity to the customers and playing the vital role in changing the mode of businesses by creating and planning well. Latest developments have been observed successfully in the mobile technology and have created enormous enhancements in countless business domains. Take a great look at how mobiles have been serving local and international businesses. Better Customer Experience With the increasing significance of mobile phones serving businesses are regularly and seeking new and developed ways to influence newer trends in customers’ lives. A large ratio of consumers now can perform their daily searches on their own mobile phones which have become very easy and fast. Therefore, the world of businesses is now started developing their professional websites as mobile responsive. Even, every business is moving towards the mobile apps development so as to get their apps designed. For instance, mobile apps businesses have built an exclusively new market for everyone especially retailers. Moreover, the real estate industry is also getting implemented of this great tendency by announcing 3D mobile apps. These 3D apps surely support in carrying the perception and the layout design of a property to probable buyer’s way. Furthermore, worldwide customers can carry out their worries and provide feedback about their products and services effortlessly with the assistance of mobile trends and assume fast replies to their uncertainties and inquiries. Such interactive approaches serve successfully in preserving a perfect way of the communication network with the users. Greater Association The mobile development has also permitted businesses to enlarge their employees to form a worldwide network. Mobile phone devices certainly agree colleagues cooperate from across the world, thus by eliminating any interference to provide excellent communication. Even, smart mobiles have been enabled with fast Internet facilities and one can easily connect and visit any website to fulfill your tasks done. They have made everything likely to behavior phone-conferences, and live online meetings via video calls and phone calls. Mobile users are also able to join group meetings remotely and also get connected to conference calls and participate in group discussion as well. This can also support in removing any pause in work and also assist in meeting daily deadlines and making the productivity positive at workplaces. Ideal Marketing Approaches Through the use of mobile technology, the skills of marketing are also generating positive momentum for a long time. Today, quite many customers are turning to their businesses successfully by using their mobile devices to fulfill their necessities. For instance, these mobile devices are supported with quite many features including the feature of Bluetooth which is widely used to carry on initialed amazing discount offers to their customers’ mobile phones. Improved Operations The mobile development has also turned the business operations to execute quite smoother and hastier than it was ever before. Mobile phone technology has supported the world of business hugely in accessibility. For instance, a very significant file saved in the cloud can be easily opened from anywhere. Customer care executives can also access the required data at any time and remain up to date about the customers’ requirements. Similarly, they can also offer precise and pertinent services to their customers that support them in fast-moving procedures significantly and escalate exactness, thus to make the mobile communication process even quite competent. Link building is considered one of the ideal and most operative parts of SEO tactics. It is also said to be one of the most creative ways to generate organic traffic towards your website. To create the worth of any website, backlinks play a vital role to identify the search engine about its positive existence. Backlinks A backlink is a link to your website, any social website, or any content you are looking brand it as mentioned by any third-party. There are several ways to create backlinks for your website and some of them permit you to associate on the success of your competitors. It depends upon the condition whether how good or great such links are and how they are well structured on the source sites and the domain authority of the mentioning website. Quality Backlinks Quality backlink executes a vital role in performing SEO services for any website. Google observes these backlinks as a degree for votes, accepts and gives the significance in search to companies with the extreme number of high quality and appropriate backlinks. The worth of the website depends upon these quality backlinks where they are placed on third parties’ website. Get Free Query from our Digital Marketing Experts. Types of Backlinks There are two main types of backlink that you can obtain from different external websites. The Dofollow links and Nofollow links. The Dofollow link is the one you want to get for passing the value to your website. It is an inbound link that has the capability to pass the authority from one page to another. It generally builds its worth and rankings in search engine result pages - SERP. While a Nofollow link absolute opposite from dofollow link. It never passes a value to your website and has much impact on building the authority of the page in search engine. Generating High Quality Backlinks Secure Product Reviews You can get high-quality backlinks from any powerful website’s product reviews. It is occasional that any publication will not include your link as dofollow after reviewing your request but you can simply request for adding the link. Guest Posting Guest posting is one of the ideal ways for obtaining a valuable link from any guest post websites. Because when you contribute to the higher page(s) ranked websites or also to lesser recognized blogs that still have a noteworthy targeted audience. You can concentrate on the reliability and significance of the website you are following, as it will always gain tenfold. Must get the host to approve to contain a follow backlink from the website to yours website and for you to public it on social media and link it to your own website. Visual Content Links It is also effective for you to create visual content links to make it publicly viral. This way, you can create and share visually attractive content so that these types of interesting stories can drive attention and engagement to the readers. As you may have known, the infographics receive three times as many values on social media platforms as any other sort of content does. Q&A Interviews You can also create round-up interview posts like to be interviewed by using any relevant industrial topics so that you can generate a positive high-quality backlink in this way. It will be a fruitful way to get value passed to your website through these types of interviews where your website’s link is placed. Artificial intelligence attempts to transform the supply chain and logistics. Artificial Intelligence (AI) is revolutionizing the logistics world. That may seem like a cliché, or hype, or buzz, but it's real. The technology is greatly changing the way packages move around the globe, from predictive analytics to autonomous vehicles and smart roads. As the world is moving at a fast pace, AI is trying to take over every part of our life. Every day, we get to hear stuff about machine learning and robotics technology making a world-wide impact by optimizing our everyday tasks. As it saves time and performs tasks more efficiently. Now, AI is taking over the logistics industry as well. Here are the top six ways in which Artificial Intelligence transforms the logistics industry as we understand it. 1. Autonomous Vehicles AI now facilitates self-driving vehicles, which implies improving the supply chain and reducing costs for the logistics industry. Driverless cars are good, but there are many other vehicles that can be autonomous. For example, trucks or vans that deliver all the needed products, as well as buses, can profit from self-driving opportunities. These cars can function alone or in collaboration with a human driver. However, many countries' government claims the driver must be in the self-driving car to control the situation on the road. This decision can be revised in the future. The logistics sector will definitely benefit from the integration of driverless vehicles. These vehicles provide a chance to reduce driving time, optimize routes and reduce fuel consumption. 2. Advanced Warehouses AI transforms all warehousing operations from information collection to inventory procedures. This technology allows to strengthen the effectiveness and boost profit. Various logistics companies have already designated robots to automate the process of product sorting and packaging. Robots have been programmed to pack products and sort them based on the delivery requirements. It also enables the management and performance of several daily tasks. In addition, new technologies will facilitate quality control to be managed without employee supervision. Apart from that, whether the company has one or more warehouses, AI will provide an opportunity to interact with them to find the best solution to transport the good. 3. Back Office Automation When talking about AI in logistics, back-office operations cannot be forgotten. The quality of work gets impressively better with the help of AI and RPA (Robotic Process Automation). All those repetitive and boring task gets taken over by the robots. Because back-office operations companies are automated with supply chains, they can save money and boost precision. Cognitive automation is the new technology that goes two steps ahead. It helps businesses save time, spend less money, and increase productivity along with accuracy. It basically replaces office employees with robots. A lot of people do not embrace this technology as it will eventually replace human staff with software robots. But these robots will help in cost reduction and eliminate human-errors. 5. Revamp Customer Experience Businesses should be aware of and predict the number of goods needed. If the inventory is limited but the demand is high, the business will have to face severe losses. Artificial intelligence can also assist you in predicting trends with the use of AI algorithms. Various studies have revealed that AI predicts better than most human experts. AI tracks and measures all the required factors which results in improving the accuracy of demand prediction. With the help of this data, warehouse management becomes simpler. Moreover, AI can bring beneficial improvements to the customer experience. Integrating this technology implies personalizing the experience of customers and, as a result, customer loyalty is improved. The collaboration between DHL Parcel and Amazon are a great example of personalized customer experience. 4. Quickest Smart Road Delivery Some businesses are working to develop smart roads. They grant some unique solutions depending on regional requirements. As a result, in some areas, there are highways built with solar panels and LED lights. These roads can generate electricity as well as using lights to warn drivers about crucial changes in road conditions. Moreover, the solar panels are heated to prevent the road from becoming slippery in the winter. As a result, the logistics industry gets some advantages as there are no delays in the supply chain owing to weather conditions. 6. Voice Assistants to the Rescue Artificial Intelligence is also getting a hold on voice assistants in logistics. Amazon's Alexa is one such instance that is assisting t customers to track their orders placed. You can ask Alexa about your package and it can readily tell you where it has reached. Also, it can even route calls to the courier's customer support if the customer faces issues with their package. AI has a part to play at every stage of logistics. End Note The logistics industry can take benefit from AI in a number of ways. Warehouses use AI to automate and interconnect inner procedures within them. Advanced techniques such as geocoding and location intelligence are used for optimum results. The B2B and B2C industries also use AI-based systems to allocate vehicles and select the most optimized routes for cars. Today, this technology plays a significant role in logistics solutions. It improves efficiency and automates many time-consuming operations on a daily basis, saving time and lowering costs. The world we live in leaves a digital footprint in almost all operations and that serves as a stepping stone for machine learning algorithms. It's about time that AI takes over manual choices and delivers packages more efficiently. PHP is a widely used open-source server side scripting language. It is powering major websites like Facebook, Wordpress and many more. It provides some good reasons as why developers prefer PHP over other server-side scripting languages. Such as, Ruby, Python etc. PHP considers very fast language. It has detailed documentation, large community, ready-to-use scripts and supported frameworks. Also, the most important thing about PHP means the easy to start with rather than any other scripting language. PHP language comes with useful tools and resources which makes the whole PHP development process easy, effective and quicker. Here, I am going to present some useful PHP tools which can significantly improve the whole development process Webgrind Precisely, Webgrind knows as a debugging tool. It provides an Xdebug profiling web front end in PHP 5. It can install in seconds and works on all platforms. Xdebug Xdebug presents popular debugging PHP tool. Prcisely, it helps in providing lots of useful data to quickly identify the bugs in the source code. The tool can easily plug into almost every popular PHP application like PHPEclipse and PHPDesigner. PHPUnit PHPUnit, a complete whole port of the JUNIT. This tool helps to test the web applications stability and adaptability. So, it can write test cases within the PHPUnit framework with an easy usage. Selenium The tool allows to write automatic web application UI tests in any programming language. It seems against to any HTTP website which uses any mainstream JavaScript-enabled browser. Hence, the tool can use in combination with PHPUnit to create and run automated tests within the web browser. PHPDocumentor PHPDocumentor aka Phpdoc or Phpdocu provides great documentation tool for the PHP code. It contains numerous amounts of features such as the ability to produce results in HTML, PDF, CHM and XML DocBook formats. So, it serves both web-based and command line interfaces along with source code highlighting. Securimage Securimage tool serves as free and open-source PHP CAPTCHA script. It generates complex, difficult images and CAPTCHA codes to give extra protection to your forms. Pixy: PHP Security Scanner Pixy, a Java program which automatically scans PHP 4 source code to detect XSS and SQL injections possibilities. The tool takes PHP program as an input and list out all the possible vulnerabilities found in the code. It supports along with important additional information to help in the understanding of the vulnerability. PHP/SWF Charts It means one of the powerful PHP tools which lets your create attractive web charts. The graphs serves from dynamic data and one can make use of PHP scripts to generate and collect data from databases. Then, it makes use of this tool can create flash (SWF) charts and graphs. PHPMathPublisher PHPMathPublisher provides great services as a tool. It can edit mathematical documents on the web by using the PHP script. However, it needs no additional LaTex programs on server or MathML. PHP Object Generator Here, PHP Object Generator serves as a great tool. It provides an open-source web-based tool which helps you quickly construct PHP objects. Also, it utilizes OOP (object-oriented programming) principles in the code. Scavenger Another, there comes an open-source tool with a name The Scavenger, vulnerability detection tool. The tool helps to react to exposure findings, track vulnerability findings. It also reviews accepted and false-positive answered vulnerability. MagickWand for PHP The tool MagickWand also serves PHP. It means, a PHP module suite to work with the ImageMagick API. You will find it helpful to create, edit and compose bitmap images. So, the tool supports very easy function and quickly incorporate image-editing features in the PHP applications. PHP Code Beautifier The PHP CodeBeautifier tool saves your time to format the code to present it in your own way. Precisely, the GUI version allows processing files visually. A command line version can also integrate along with other tools. It can also support as an integrated tool of PHPEdit. Well, all these tools provide ideal assistance and some serve its extremely useful services as PHP tools. It can help in profiling, debugging, testing and code-authoring PHP code. Know some more? Do let us know in the comment below. Creating a simple and good-looking website which every visitor finds it user-friendly and can fulfill required tasks. One should keep the website simple to get the best response online and people would find it quite user-friendly. Try to keep maintain the website accordingly so that there must have no or less annoyance in selection. Certain Consideration: There should be certain consideration to make the best impression of the website which is being designed. The designer must be reliant on the appearance of the website so that there should be prominent consistency with the designing that must attract the visitors immensely. There are certain arrangements and adjustments which one needs to make with navigation improvements and enhancing the images of the website. Where there is consistency throughout, navigation of the website and improvement in moving from one page to another is highly essential. Further, page design is something that makes appropriate and attainable changes that is needed to use in the most situations. Browsing with ease is an important part of the website through authentic features and easy movement within your site. The perfection to make the use of a website which is consistently navigated where there is a recollection whenever a website gets recalled with parts of the site that shows you its resemblance. The similarity in the website’s pages is what makes navigation easy whenever they are used. Different Aspects A Good Web Designer Knows: Colors that are put into the website also prove that there is a design which is effectively and complacently made use of. Use the color which looks as attractive as you might want to use and reliably have placement on the site with ease. The text can have different colors with the background the provide attractive look on the main page of the website to make it look striking. People can access certain website from different locations such as through desktops, laptops, mobile phones, iPhones or iPad’s etc. So, the designers make sure that the website should open properly on all such devices with appropriate CSS format that is used in designing. So, if the website is following the user friendliness; the website will get more visitors and will be accessed from different locations successfully. Designing of the website is kept in such a way that it opens in different browsers efficiently and without any hindrances. Thus, it becomes easy to use and apprehensive to put to use and implement. Important Tactics Used By Web Designer: An experienced web designer can always use different and ideal tactics while designing user friendly website. It is also necessary to check for the images, typos and broken links of the website which might create errors. Make sure all the closable selection is done well and the overall look of the website is appearing according to the precise format and requirements. Check it out all the reliability and that the website is up to date or still there are any necessary changes to make in its appearance or in the text. To write any code is to build a project that is essential and holds relevancy through a perpetual and improved means to earn revenue as well. Different lines of code are mentioned in the layout that has the persistence to build the website. Using the code which is written to make better and entirely user-friendly website. With the code you write, there is a well-controlled outcome that results in most situations and the website has a newer kind of design overall. Also, place content that is challenging and attractive which may change the appearance of the website overall. Web Application Development is an innovative choice which is currently a favorite of many business owners. But even now most people don't have a clear concept of the price of developing a web application. All they need to do is read on to become more comfortable with the idea for anyone interested but confused in using Website Development to their company. What is Web Application Development? Web Application Development can be described as developing browser-based website or application or software with a short life cycle lead. It's a web-based solution that helps you operate or manage or supervise or administer your major company information. You can also easily catch up with the mobile audience with the assistance of web solutions. You can control your website from the mobile phone, and this can help you boost your sales big time. How much does it Cost to Build a Web App? Web applications costs can differ so greatly from one business to another and. You might get surprised when you take the rates or simply just google it as they vary from $10,000 to $500,000 with the same requirements, functionality and engagement model. Cost of web app development relies on three main variables : The geographical location of the web app development company. Overall business experience. App development company’s size, projects, status and achievements. How to Reduce App Development Cost There are not many choices available because it requires a lot of time, effort, skill, patience and money to develop a fully-fledged application. So we decided to write a comprehensive answer to this question to help all those interested in developing apps. Jot down all the project requirements in the initial stage It is understood that the cost of development will increase with the increase in demands. So prepare a thorough analysis of your demands as it is a critical element in the success of any project. In case if you are going to lack it, it will result in numerous changes during the development phase as well as become the reason for project delays. If at the very beginning, proper documentation of demands is handed over, the team will get a clear picture of the business purposes of the client. Although changes and errors are unavoidable during development, they will be kept to a minimum with clear, comprehensive documentation. Minimal Viable Product (MVP) It is good to be on a safer side and launch your product's first version with minimal functionality. Initially, do not go over the top rather merely introduce the key concept and leave secondary feature development for a later time. With your MVP, you can easily assess your product's market demand and determine if clients are prepared to pay for it or not. Once you are sure the demand exists and start getting revenue, you can then invest in adding those secondary features. Actually, with agile methodology, MVP goes hand in hand. It not only decreases expenses but also save you from potential failure. Save Money on Development but not on Developers Everybody wants the development to be done in the most reasonable rates. But keep in mind that, to employ the cheapest development agency, you become the victim of their experimentation and their go-to option for getting into the market. Furthermore, there is no assurance that they will complete it at all! Ultimately, you're going to be forced to hire another more experienced development team to complete or even begin from scratch. Iterative Development It is an old methodology which implies developing all planned features to test your app and its market optimization. You can readily eradicate unnecessary features initially at the testing stage which were going to waste a lot in the development stage. In order to save time and money, it is highly recommended to split the whole project into small segments or iterations and then gradually you can add new features with each new iteration/segments. With Iterative development, you can readily change or modify the project without the replanning and restructuring the entire project to fit it in. Cross-Platform Development Developing cross-platforms can be an excellent cost saver. However, this is only valid if your app is not very complicated, if it does not use native interfaces, and if hardware integration is not required. Otherwise, its performance may be affected. Developing cross-platforms can assist you to reduce development costs in many cases. Continuous Monitoring Constantly communicate with your team and do not completely depend on your project managers. They can also create errors or overlook some problems. Test for yourself every new build of your application, as some minor deviations from the initial goals, may occur. Instead of noticing and fixing the issues after the app has been released. it would be much cheaper to resolve them while they are new. Make Use of Ready-to-use Solutions You can implement some UI features by using pre-constructed templates that just need a few adjustments. There are also many third-party WaaS (Whatever as a Service) suppliers, ranging from SaaS (Software as a Service) to BaaS (Backup as a Service) offering ready-to-use alternatives for a monthly subscription fee or even free. Mapping and payment facilities are among the most popular. You can use Puship, a third-party push notification plugin for iOS and Android, instead of creating your own custom push notification features. Or, you can use Google Cloud Platform (PaaS) to provide backend facilities such as multi-user data sharing and processing, data synchronization across devices, user authentication, Memcache, notification, and message sending, automatic app scaling, etc. However, you should bear in mind that many of these facilities that are integrated into an application can lead to problems such as instability and poor scalability. It is, therefore, necessary to use them wisely and within reasonable boundaries. They already understand which solutions can be used and to what extent, if you work with an experienced development team. Web designers use several tactics and implement such instances according to the latest trends that are particular needed in a specific website. One can cover an efficient array of concepts and consider a viable option to program a particular project which is being under construction. A proper arrangement of programing structure that are based on logical concepts are needed to implement onto the website. The website precisely runs on coding and thus is programmed with an intent to feed all the necessary information required to present it as per its demand, relying on it to avail best results. Javascript is a commonly used language that is implemented while developing a website. It has a common code programing to connect with HTML, DHTML or XML which eventually makes any specific program multi-scoped. Moreover, there are quite many web development tools which are basic means to construct websites, like Magento and asp.NET. A CSS format is also a standard form of tool that helps in formatting code to the style of preference. It is something very reliable to use and acquire accurate sort of designing of web pages. It supports quite well in web design entire pages. Don’t worry about the header and work on the body of your website under construction making valiant efforts to design a complete site. Site Design Done Impressively Having Productive Use It is easy to design a website you are working on and make relevant usage, as there are several ways to access with web approaches. Perfect a template and make a whole outlook of your website be understood and have reliable time distribution you need in programming. A universal software design process is something having proper arrangements you as a programmer must have through acquirable skills. Software development is not a preplanned activity, it must be put into practice with actions you are sincere with and see the relevance. A supportive operating system is always used and is what you need as an environment in most situations, building websites sensibly. Having a considerable understanding of just a few tools makes the developer more confident when he is out to construct websites. Use of good speed hardware makes you be swift with the development of websites significantly, perfectly fit a criterion you meet. Make salient moves and select the best resolution getting you to cover programming lines of code you know are appropriate in most situations. The software is a testing process and has considerable use through requirements creeping up as time goes on. Use Web Design Tricks And Never Slack In Programming Web design has applications you can develop for iOS and Android purposes that are reliable and consistent products that are a required microchip technology to operate for gaming or other purposes. A more common development tool produces Android apps that are software to function with users who are used to devices such as smartphones. This kind of platform is more usable because it has more advanced SDK applications you are eager to use and implement. Browser or Native based apps which Android phones use are developed through tools that are ways you only would want to accept. Select right choice of development patterns as a choice made by designers and developers that you are ambitious about. Requirements are what you start planning with and design using tools which slowly gets software come into being. Have an understood and antagonistic means you realize and make an accurate start to realize what way to go in development. Make an easy web designers choice and acquire correct facilities that are acceptable as a means to progress with online website construction. Since the mobile application development is becoming the growing trend in the business landscape, the competition to step in the mobile industry has been exaggerated. Today business officials are looking for every feasible way to reach the market at the earliest and stand out in the contest and that too without any compromise with the quality and amount of market opportunities. One such method that is popular on the market is the adoption of the Agile methodology. Agile mobile app development methodology is the methodology of iterative and step-by-step software development. Agile application development helps organize strategies of design and planning, development and testing during a software lifecycle. All Agile methods are based on the following principles: Rapid response to any changes with the assistance of adaptive planning. Joint development of requirements. Rationalization of duties performed by the development team. Step-by-step software development with rigid time frames. This method is used in many of today's development projects. Thus, the Agile methodology encourages experts to handle development teamwork and organize their tasks effectively. And this methodology is based on a democratic approach to the whole process of an organization. How Agile Methodology Works Since the Agile app development methodology consists of a few short cycles (2-3 weeks each), risk minimization takes place. After each cycle, a customer can see the outcome, and he/she can request any modifications. Thus, a customer has a direct influence on the development and controls it. Each Agile application development lifecycle comprises of the following phases: Planning; Analysis of requirements; Design; Development; Testing; Preparation of documentation. One cycle is not enough to build a full product, but each iteration demonstrates part of the functionality that can be tested and/or changed. After each cycle, the development team sums up everything and can receive new requirements, then some adjustments can be made in the software development plan. Benefits of Agile Mobile App Development Approach You might wonder what's the advantage of using agile methodology in your mobile app development. Or maybe why choose Agile to develop your mobile app. Here’s the answer. Reliable Development Process The mobile app project gets split into smaller modules when we talk about Agile which then are treated as separate sub-projects. These sub-projects make the process transparent as they are handled by separate teams without counting on one another. Besides, everyone gets unambiguous instructions of what is expectant of them and the related resources and deadlines that carry out the development process. As a result, every developer plays their best in the mobile app development project, which then results in a proper app development process with faster delivery. Offer Better Profits With the Agile Methodology, you can have a test and trial through the most fundamental app (MVP). It helps mobile development companies to update the app with every iteration. This is a friendly way for executives of mobile apps to test their concept, collect insights build brand presence and then eventually provide the best and demanded features meeting customer requirements and latest trends. Consequently, with the help of relevant information, they make the right choice and gain better and improved ROI. Safest Choice Launching your own app can be quite challenging, as market trends and requirements keep on evolving. They are evolving at a pace that often when you launch your app, it happens that the trends and data you thought will work out become outdated while you were developing your app. And hence the result is poor ROI and a dark future. In such a scenario, Agile comes at rescue. The tool it provides helps you estimate the risks and brighten your business scope. In other words, Agile Methodology enables a mobile app development company to make necessary changes to any particular sprint without troubling the code of preceding sprints. Hence, it results in making your application up-to-date and market-friendly. Quality Control Process Debugging is one of the most tiresome tasks a mobile developer has to perform. It is like Digging through blocks of code to discover the source of a bug is often like looking for a needle in a haystack. But with Agile, different parts of a project are fundamentally modular; developers can bypass many of these problems. You can test each sprint separately which will lower the risk of bugs becoming eminent in the development phase. Also, it ensures a more reliable and responsive product when deployed for your customers. Customer Feedback as Topmost Priority With the ever-evolving digital age, mobile apps cannot be static. The high trends in the market today won’t be the same after a year or a month down the line. So the tip here is to listen to the customers’ criticism and needs. The quicker you adapt the changes your customer demand the better you will be at retaining customers. With the Agile Methodology, the life of your project can be expanded. It is much simpler to update mobile apps designed with the agile philosophy in mind than the compatibility issues that come with applications designed with a more traditional methodology. You can receive updates in precise sprints, which can help you effectively triage and deploy the most complicated updates rather than just releasing the versions spread out in terms of timing. Smart Control Over Project The agile process has transformed the entire app development project into separate modules, it also provides you with the facility to manage project conveniently. With Agile mobile app development process, you can easily assign tasks to different teams and reduce the inter-dependencies and debates. You can also keep a record of the operations done on each small project and figure out easily what is working and what is not as per the suggested strategy. Moreover, you can also keep a check on every individual’s performance and productivity and also consider hiring more efficient staff. Less Expensive Development You can very easily calculate the cost of app creation and justify your budget as every step here is well planned, executed and delivered. Furthermore, in case if there’s a situation of increasing the app budget at any point in the development process, it can be easily done with Agile. In this way, owing to the lack of resources and funds, you can avoid leaving the project incomplete. Speedy App Design & Development As we mentioned before, the development of the app is split among the different app developers in the agile methodology. So, if a developer’s code contains bugs, the others do not have to wait for him to fix and then let the work resume. Just like all the other tasks, designing is also split into separate tasks. Due to segmentation, the overall process won’t stop at any point. This guarantees that your mobile app is developed much faster using the Agile methodology. Last Words Agile methodology is really useful for mobile app development because expectations and standards are changing constantly and Agile is readily adaptable. To meet desirable targets, user expectations and accomplish tangible results, a mobile app development company should choose the agile to develop mobile applications. Being a business owner, you can't risk your mobile app being in the wrong hands. After all, your mobile app is not just an asset, but a way to be successful. 3D Parallax effect if used correctly can add cool interactivity to your website that can grab your visitor’s attention. Therefore, some certain websites that have done excellent implementation of mouse following parallax effect. In this tutorial, we are going to replicate such effects. Traditionally, a photograph used on which layers of elements are added and on mouse movement to create such effects. These different layers move with different speeds giving the illusion of depth. As, you can see in the example below, the scene divided into multiple layers. The layer that will move in slower speed and cover shorter distance will give the effect of being nearer to the observer. Our client at Arpatech demanded to have such effects. But here’s the catch; it has applied on a real life photograph of a room like below. Such complex scenery would require precise cutting of objects through Photoshop and then to make multiple layers out of them. Still, it would not look natural as the scene have not much distinct elements to play with. The most object images are blending with one another. Even, if we use the layers method, we will end up making the landing page heavy as the layers would be in PNG format due to the need of transparency. With the new method JPGs can be used, significantly reducing the load time of the page. By the end of the tutorial you will be able to achieve this result: Pretty cool, considering that it can achieve in a matter of minutes starting from just a normal 2d image. The secret sauce behind it is the depth map. Apple uses this technique to create stunning portrait mode photos. It replicates the blur background effect of big lens cameras like DSLRs. What depth map do to provide distant information of each pixel in the photograph? iPhone 7 calculate the distance through the dual camera setup. Luckily, we can create our own depth map using our own perception and a single Photoshop brush. Let’s get started: How Depth Map Works: To create a depth map, first you need to understand how depth maps work. It adds distance information to a 2d image and it uses only the shades of black. The darker the black one becomes the further away. So, it belongs in the scene and the lighter the black is the nearer it belongs. Precisely, complete white color means that the object is the nearest. In the above image, the left one is actual RGB image and the right one is its depth map. Therefore, we can see the petals that are in lighter tone and the objects are distancing the tone of them are getting darker. In 3D terms, the tone of the color is representing the z-axis information of pixels. Creating Depth Map Using Photoshop: Open your photograph in Photoshop 2) Create a new layer, fill it black and turn down the layer opacity to around 50% so you can see the original image below. 3) Turn down the Hardness of brush to 0% and start painting over on the black fill layer. Paint the objects with light tone that are nearer and paint the objects with dark tone that are further. 4) Turn up the opacity of the painted layer to 100% so you can see the final result. It doesn’t look great. But, it gets the job done. Hence, we deliberately don’t have to do with the edges. It has shifted outwards to give the best result. Now, you save the file as jpg and make sure you save the same dimensions as the original image. Setting Up The HTML Page: To interpret the depth map, we are using pixi.js library’s Displacement Filtre. “<script src='https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/pixi.js/4.5.0/pixi.min.js'></script>” Here is the complete code. Feel free to play with the values to adjust the effect according to your liking. <!DOCTYPE html> <html > <head> <meta charset="UTF-8"> <title>Displacement mapping with 2d Face</title> <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0"> <style> body { background: black; color: #ccee99; text-align: center; position: fixed; } #wrap { border: 0px solid #333; width:100%; } #images img { width: 100px; height: auto; } </style> </head> <body> <div id="wrap"> </div> <script src='https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/pixi.js/4.5.0/pixi.min.js'></script> <script> function resize() { if (window.innerWidth / window.innerHeight >= ratio) { var w = window.innerHeight * ratio; var h = window.innerHeight; } else { var w = window.innerWidth; var h = window.innerWidth / ratio; } renderer.view.style.width = w + 'px'; renderer.view.style.height = h + 'px'; } window.onresize = resize; </script> <script> w=window.innerWidth, h = window.innerHeight; var renderer = new PIXI.WebGLRenderer(w, h); var cOutput = document.getElementById('wrap'); cOutput.appendChild(renderer.view); var stage = new PIXI.Container(); var container = new PIXI.Container(); var foreground = new PIXI.Container(); stage.addChild(container); stage.addChild(foreground); var f; var fg; var mousex = w/2, mousey = h/2; var ploader = new PIXI.loaders.Loader(); function init(){ console.log('dasdsdasd'); ploader.add('fg', 'Original.jpg'); //insert Orignal 2d Image Here ploader.add('depth', 'DepthMap.jpg'); //insert Depth Map Here ploader.once('complete', startMagic); // Begin loading - ploader.load(); } function startMagic() { fg = new PIXI.Sprite(ploader.resources.fg.texture); foreground.addChild(fg); d = new PIXI.Sprite(ploader.resources.depth.texture); f = new PIXI.filters.DisplacementFilter(d, 0); fg.filters = [f]; window.onmousemove = function(e) { mousex = e.clientX; mousey = e.clientY; }; animate(); } function animate() { console.log('aaaaaaaaaa'); f.scale.x = (window.innerWidth/2 - mousex) / 79; f.scale.y = (window.innerHeight/2 - mousey) / 79; fg.addChild(d); d.renderable=false; renderer.render(stage); requestAnimationFrame(animate); } // Start - init(); </script> </body> </html> Now, change the original.jpg with the filename of your original 2d image file. Change depthmap.jpg with your newly created depth map. Demo: See the Pen Mouse Follow Parallax Effect Using Depth Map by @fatik on CodePen. Using this method you can give subtle 3d parallax effect to 2d images in no time without running into much complexities. Thanks to Pixi library, the animations are very smooth. In this recent era, lots of development technologies have been introduced from time to time. They offer unbelievable services and fulfilling growing demands of digital renovation across the world. Among such technologies; MEAN STACK is something one of them that gets listed as the greatest technology. It utilizes for developing top mobile apps. Today, MEAN Stack gets employed by leading mobile app development giants across the world. Basic Acronym for MEAN is MongoDB: M describes its open source as MongoDB which means a free and cross-platform database used for JavaScript. It utilizes JSON document focused on style that serves entire data representation. So, the reason behind selecting this technology means to restrict us to fair single language-JavaScript for the entire app development. ExpressJS : E represents ExpressJS which represents one of the utmost dynamic tools; used for developing actual functioning mobile and web applications. So, it provides the negligible framework used for web development as Node.js. Yet, it functions quite enormous and even possible to design entire website simply using Node.js and Express.js. This combination empowers us to design even software on the server-side. It means Node.js becomes really vital and Express.js supports in publishing the app on web domain. AngularJS: A defines AngularJS which means it is a front-end JS framework that outspreads HTML along with some more new characteristics. It recognizes now widely and utilized in developing client-side apps with integrated code and a data required User Interface. It determines categorically ideal and easy to learn tool for developing Single Page Applications. Node.js : N elaborates Node.js as a great prevailing, open source and cross-platform. It supports JavaScript-based run-time framework specially designed on Google Chrome’s JSV8 engine. It implements through the worldwide developers as it provides a free platform that combines with ExpressJS to fulfill application development. MEAN Stack Perception: As MEAN Stack means a completely free and open-source platform supporting the JavaScript software stack. It is providing facilities in designing websites and web applications. The MEAN Stack developers try their best to implement incredible features to use in across app and web development projects. Therefore, the developers also find the MEAN stack as a great worth, as its applications. They mean capable for writing in a single language for both either at client side or server-side. Features & Benefits Precisely, the noteworthy features can cover across any code with JavaScript as the mutual denominator for the mixed technologies in the MEAN stack. So, the exchanging between client and server code turns into easier with the MEAN stack as JavaScript is quite supportive in both the browser and on the server as well. Although, the MEAN Stack provides efficiency through MongoDB that offers an additional flexibility and a cooperative layer for storing data. While, Node.js supports an efficient nexus for running server and Express.js provides assistance to design your websites. On the client side, AngularJS serves an ideal way to enhance cooperative functions and AJAX-driven rich components. Another significant benefit of this ideal technology means that MEAN can find an independent platform. It plays the courteous part with both Linux and Windows operating systems alike. Well Managed Web Development Tool MEAN Stack is defining to the greatest web development tool that writes entire code in JavaScript. Thus, any single project can be easily planned and designed through a very easy tool. Obviously, this makes it a model and classic option for creating real-time web apps. Also, it is using Single Page Applications and the web pages will not require being refreshed for each server request, as different traditional web apps need. Finally, developers find each technology in the MEAN Stack to be free and open-source. The worldwide community of MEAN Developers contributes to further new developments and also the upgrades of the software version. Social media behemoth Facebook has announced it’s eliminating its feature Instant Games from Messenger and adding it to the Facebook Gaming tab on the main app. Leo Olebe, Global Director, Games Partnerships, Facebook said: “With our focus on creating a central Instant Games experience on Facebook, and as Messenger moves to be faster, lighter and simpler, we recently started migrating Instant Games play sessions from Messenger to Facebook and the Facebook Gaming tab.” With the aim to enhance user-engagement with the platform, Facebook introduced Instant Games on Messenger in 2016 with many other hot-selling games. Olebe said that to guarantee a smooth changeover, players in Messenger will continue to access games through thread updates and chatbots, while the gameplay itself will app-switch to Facebook. During the rearrangement, the company is planning ways to diminish interruptions to both developers and players and uphold overall game health. Players vigorous on Instant Games would be informed and directed with details on platform transitions and timelines. “We recently increased the number of people eligible for the Gaming tab based on Instant Games activity and we’ll continue to expand this audience over time. We’re continuing to expand the global Facebook Gaming team,” Olebe added. Facebook is also investing in new architectures and guidelines to better support developer success, improve game discovery, game quality, and platform integrity. The social platform is surely playing a prominent part for any company. It is providing not only visibility and attraction to the customers but also generating profitable revenue in a different manner. The day when many marketers and publishers heard the terrible news. Facebook is applying unexpected changes in its algorithm. This Algo might become the main reason to direct less traffic to content websites. The ALGO change doesn’t come as a complete shock. A prominent research by SocialFlow prior on this found. The influence of publisher stories had before now dropped by 42%. Facebook doesn’t pronounce about its algorithm changes except they’re going to have a big influence, and this one will. Finally, the publisher traffic around 40% comes from Facebook, as said by recent research from analytics company Parse.ly. ALGO Will Affect Much The marketers must know that and it presents clear that the recent ALGO changes will affect much in different points of view. But, if there is something a publisher with a massive Facebook existence like BuzzFeed or Vox. A huge purpose people share the needs like products, news or events on Facebook in the first place. Because, they see them in their News Feed after posting i.e. publishers’ Facebook posts grow massive traffic. Ad Costs Will Rise It is also expected that the cost of promotional adverting will rise and the Ad content run on Facebook will gradually rise. Because people from across the world spend a huge amount to promote their business through such ads on the Facebook network. Thus, the publishers had already reached the stage of grief and instant they will buy more Facebook ads for the promotion of their posts. Such ad cost increase will probable advance supply-side costs and the cost per commitment of Facebook ads will ultimately rise. The Instant Articles Detonation Will Slow Instant articles have been one of the rapid emerging features of Facebook over the past year. Thus, several brands and publishers post their articles in large quantity directly to promote on Facebook. They receive great hit because they largely get listed higher in the News Feed than links that effort back to the publisher websites. These instant articles will probably take the alike hit as other publisher posts, but the current change in the algorithm will surely make a lot of publishers quite dubious about hand over the control of their content straight to Facebook. Natural Advertising Will Fade The advantage to this new change in ALGO was that publishers could now be able to share exclusive content from their own official pages for generating organic traffic. But with the changes in ALGO, publishers will have to depend on buying Facebook traffic to instinctive ads which mean such potential matters might become the greater deal. The ALGO has also created generic difficulties for publishers like BuzzFeed, which generate a large amount by using Facebook to acquire high view counts on videos it makes for brands. If such videos take a hit, ultimately those publishers will have their work left for them. In ancient times, the world businesses carried out without using office implements, devices or machines. Later on, as man invented certain office supplies and devices that provided sufficient aid in making the work not only easier but also fast. Thus, the use telephones, fax machines, copiers, and computers assisted office work. Today, we stand in the modern era where more and more advancements have taken place. Office work supported with latest technology and fastest means of communication devices. The office supplies and devices are making work more effective and reliable. The user should know the importance when the old technology needs to be upgraded. Businesses are getting services of high-speed internet access with its numerous opportunities to search for their targeted customers. ideally, they have the reliable ways of build brands and research over suppliers. They can communicate with people that can simply bring business and generate profit as well. Therefore, for many companies, appropriate means of technology that runs entire office environment smoothly plays the reliable role. It urges success to companies and to their employees as well. Managing & Upgrading: As the new technology and advancements are taking over from time to time so companies should know the importance of user experience. They have to manage and upgrade their old technology with the newer ones. It must avail the advantage of the newer opportunities and upgrades accordingly. So, the importance of user experience should be given intact value and keep on checking the latest technology. It can upgrade your businesses according to the modern requirements. Moreover, it provides really necessary chances to implement the new advancements and take advantage latest technology. It includes a robust network, to compete with the world more effectively with the same pace. So, it should keep up the pace with the world businesses jump too often from one system or application to another. It means using the latest technology to implement and get fruitful benefits. Strategy For Upgradation: Without having a proper experience in online conversations set for the defined strategy for upgradation of office needs. One can’t put up with the world. Businesses that excel classically create their appropriate strategies for upgrading. According to the latest technology it supports them gain a viable advantage. Even, they have to manage upgradation by different ways like cost savings, method and improvements. Moreover, it can catch faster to market, and also acquiring the enhanced quality and facility levels as well. They must manage their business needs by purchasing new relevant equipment serving their best to cope up with the latest technology. It doesn't mean that the old tech has to suffer. But, it can constantly upgrade with the advanced office computers. The related accessories by upgrading memory or having external storage devices or faster processors. Proper Learning For User Experience: There exists certain skills and learning to manage everything. People would rather extend the lives of their computers than disposing them of. It can upgrade separately and abolish the learning curve desirable to regulate to new systems and accessories accordingly. Even, need of rather a tech savvy to handle such upgrades or to have access to a prominent tech-savvy employee. One should make sure to estimate company's essential software before getting the newer machines, devices, and systems. For required programs, prepare a wish list having certain features or enhancements that would create utilizing package easier. It feels much better to consider hiring IT professionals so that they can inspect system requirements. Even, to fulfill business needs on their own and can manage the need of upgradation accordingly. Owner of TikTok ByteDance, a highly popular video-sharing app with nearly 500 million regular users, has said it’s planning to design and develop smartphones. The app, which is thought to have been downloaded over a billion times on app stores, lets people post videos of 15 seconds. The app is making the move after obtaining patents and employees from device-maker Smartisan. As well as TikTok, ByteDance owns numerous popular AI-based video and news apps, such as Slack alternative Lark, video-chat app Flipchat, and news aggregator Toutiao. TikTok, nevertheless, is its most popular presentation so far and has done exceptionally well with both Western and Asian audiences, so much as it has defeated Uber to become the world’s largest privately supported company, with a projected value of $75bn. Chinese financial magazine Caijing says that the new phone is being developed for seven months. ByteDance is not the first developer to take advantage of a popular app. In 2013, Chinese selfie-app-maker Meitu started making phones custom-made to consumers who are interested in taking photos of themselves. Promoted by popular Chinese social media influencers, Meitu’s phones comprise dual pixel cameras with faster auto-focus as well as artificial intelligence to choose the most effective customized photo-editing filters for each user. China, however, has become a very cheap market for smartphone manufacturers and yet another device is thought to be able to look different. Ben Wood, technology analyst at CCS Insight, said: “It’s extremely difficult for any new entrants to break into the smartphone market profitably, particularly at a time when big brands such as Apple, Samsung and Huawei are carpet-bombing consumers with millions of pounds worth of marketing.” “There are always niches that open up in the smartphone market but they tend to be ‘firework products’, starting with a big bang and quickly disappearing.” Technology greats such as Facebook, Google and Amazon have also gone beyond their main businesses but with erratic success. This article will prove to be an essential guide for the SEO beginners who assign to perform onsite activities. Before starting any onsite SEO activity, it really matters that your practical knowledge on how to achieve to tweak. The site should have effective SEO and getting fruitful results from such website. One needs to identify the website’s server to be competent to perform such activity and its scripting format and technologies used for its development. One should know whether the website server is using Apache or Microsoft IIS? PHP, ASP, or Java. This action will explain the SEO why one should need to know about the server, and even how to find it out which it is. Tweaking the website needs some expertise regarding the web server. It means scripting formation to use in it so that the best SEO results can be achieved. Obviously, if one entirely contented functioning with PHP on Apache web servers. Thus, it has no awareness of how to use ASP.NET on a Windows server. Then, one should not consent any onsite SEO activity for a Microsoft based web domain for fruitful results. It means unsafe to perform an onsite activity on any website. It remains beyond one’s competences because it might harm the existing constant setup of the domain. One will remain responsible for the occurred damages. How to recognize if the server practices Apache or Microsoft IIS? One needs to examine the most significant steps involved to identify the web server which is used by any web domain. If one has an Apache user and wish to practice .htaccess to perform approximate redirects or need to rewrite URL. It will won’t work with IIS. Also, if one feels further familiar at functioning with Microsoft IIS servers than Apache. Then, it will surely become necessary to check first. If the web domain on which onsite SEO activity will perform its best on a Microsoft based server. Initially: The Apache error .htaccess test: This technique provides the fastest way to identify if the server is using Apache or Microsoft IIS. But, it needs to note that it does not precisely offer the web server facts every time. However, it means ideal for checking. If it fails to recognize the web server exactly, one should move on to try the another method to achieve best results. Checking the server scripting language and its technology: There is something very essential, one should need to be familiar with is the scripting language used by the website i.e. PHP, JSP, VB.NET, C#, etc. Evidently, if one finds the website to be entirely static and is not employing any database. Then, it confirms that it is using .html. There remains several commercial websites running on the Internet and are using a precise scripting technology all over. One thing to endure in mind that ASP.NET is not any scripting language at all. But, it surely can mean to play a part of the greater Microsoft .NET framework. Having familiar with that tool, the most corporate languages used are C# and VB.NET. Even, there exists several other techniques which can utilize for identifying the scripting language. It used by the domain for attaining effective SEO results on such website. Template file extension test: It is the fastest technique, but it will not always conceal the scripting language for the most part if the URL is rewritten, which actually eliminates the file extension. At this stage, simply go to the website and inspect its URL. If the file extension is observed to be as .php, then the website is running on the PHP language script. While, if the website is practicing .aspx, then it is surely running on ASP.NET. If the website observes with the file extension as .jsp, then it is running on Java server pages. To perform this check is to move to the home page immediately, and then check it out the source code. Search it out for a string such as PHP, aspx or jsp in the URL / href value of the hyperlinks. So, after identifying the file extension test, the scripting language of the website is clearly known and it will surely supportable while performing the SEO on it and getting fruitful results as well. Snapchat - Statistics & Facts: Snapchat is something that considers a great mobile image messaging or multimedia sharing app. It launched by Evan Spiegel, Bobby Murphy, and Reggie Brown in September 2011. This app primarily released for sharing temporary images via private message Snaps. Further, it went to gain success for a user-specified extent of time before becoming remotely. Regardless of its origins as an image app, the video has also turned out to be a vital feature of Snapchat. Today, more than ten billion mobile videos viewed daily. Further, the company has registered over hundred million daily lively users worldwide. Snapchat has also graded as the most popular social media platform among teenagers. Young adults in the US. Even, Snapchat calculated about 166 million daily users from across the world during the first quarter of 2017. Instagram - Statistics & Facts: Instagram got familiar also a very familiar image sharing social media platform. It enables worldwide users to take images and edit them accordingly with a wide selection of digital filters. Instagram means also a reliable platform that offers video sharing services for the worldwide users. This video service primarily launched as an iOS app. But, now it finds also accessible for online mobile systems as well. According to the social network got a survey in September 2017, there are more than 800 million monthly active users are recorded from world regions. At present, the penetration rate of Instagram among internet users in the US is about 32% with a large number of Instagram users in the US probable to surpass about 95 million users in nearly 2020. Comparison of Snapchat & Instagram: Let’s overview at the penetration rate of the both Snapchat and Instagram among the people aging between 18 - 34 years. We observe that Snapchat beats Instagram with a ratio of 2:1. Within the seven hundred defendants questioned by YouGov, 45 percent prefer Snapchat stories. Only about 21 percent Instagram stories and 34 percent of defendants had no priority set and are contented to use either of the two. Active Users of Snapchat & Instagram: Now let’s check it out the daily active users of the both platforms as to the stories version on Snapchat and Instagram. Since Instagram Stories were launched, starting from August 2016. Here, we can observe that initial steep progress from 0-100 million DAU within the next two months. In the meantime; within the same period Snapchat constantly grows on pretty much with the equivalent pace as it flourished before Instagram launched its stories like adding quite a lot of million users a month. Instagram had recorded about 200 million daily active users of its stories, by the end of April 2017. While Snapchat apparently had about only 160+ million users. No wonder, Instagram is proficient enough to fascinate more users for its stories than Snapchat does. Final Thoughts: The development factor means quite critical for Snapchat in a long run, as for any main social platform. If it influences a plateau in its progress like Twitter did, it’ll surely disappoint the stock market. Snapchat is experimenting with the significance to its progress and adoption globally are new technologies. Currently, a Snapchat server-side feature that permits to stitch video snaps-shot from several vantage ideas on the approximate event to make continues video footage that was terrible to create before. Tech giant Google has revealed five flaws in Apple's iMessage software that could make its devices prone to attack. Researchers at the company said the susceptibility was so severe that the only way to salvage a beleaguered iPhone would be to erase all the data off it. They said another example could be used to replicate files off a device without requiring the owner to do anything to aid the hack. Apple issued repairs last week. However, the researchers said they had also highlighted a sixth problem to Apple, which had not been corrected in the update to its mobile operating system. Prof Alan Woodward, a cyber-security expert at the University of Surrey, commented: "That's quite unusual.” He said that that the reputation of the Google Zero team is such that it’s worth taking notice of. The Project Zero team was established in July 2014 to expose formerly undocumented cyber-vulnerabilities. It has previously alerted Microsoft, Facebook and Samsung, among others, to problems with their code. Apple's own notes about iOS 12.4 specify that the variable fault could give hackers a means to crash an app or perform commands of their own on recent iPhones, iPads and iPod Touches if they were able to determine it. Apple has not commented on this particular issue but has advised users to install the new version of iOS, which addresses Google's other detections as well as a further range of malfunctions and threats. "Keeping your software up to date is one of the most important things you can do to maintain your Apple product's security," it said in a statement. Today, customers have quite many options to shop online. There are plenty of eCommerce websites that are providing online shopping to the customers. They can shop their necessary products from their homes by using their personal computers, laptops, tablets or mobile phones etc. Customers frequently use their mobile phones which are quite common these days and fulfilling different needs. The online website businesses provide mobile-friendly facilities on their websites so that people can easily use their mobiles for shopping. Precisely, they are developing the mobile applications for their online users and to promote their businesses. Professional Business Website Suppose, if you got to design your ecommerce business website or eStore, make sure to contact proper ecommerce store development. They will develop your website, eStore or app as per your today's need and to let people do their shopping using any types of devices like laptops, tablets, and mobile phones etc. Therefore, you got to attract the attention of your online shoppers so that they may visit your e-Store for buying their required products. It becomes your main task to make the shopping experience easy and pleasant for your customers. Finally, this makes them to become their potential customers forever. Need To Enhance Online Shopping It seems really essential for you to keep improving the online shopping for the customers. So, it will gauge their attention for making the shopping experience easier and comfortable for them. This enhancement will surely focus the user-experience and provide them what they need from the website. Even, they can find their required products easily and leave the eStore happily. Probably, they will return again with a positive experience. You will find here some pleasant tips and tricks to provide the excellent ecommerce shopping experience to the customers. This idea will assist you in making them return to your online store. Proper Maintenance of e-Store Website Your online ecommerce web store must be frequently updated. The eStore must have proper maintenance and should be free from technical errors. Because the customers will never like to face technical errors and if it exists; this may lead to losing them forever. You must try to resolve and update all the necessary technical errors for the shoppers to use easily. Therefore, they will find your site pleasant to search for their required products. They will leave the e-Store happily and it will be a great success to you and your business. Creating of Mobile Friendly e-Store A large number of online shoppers visit your e-Store through their mobile phones. So, you should create fully functioning ecommerce store for the visitors to use their mobile phones for shopping. It should have a little bigger buttons so as to navigate them with ease. Your mobile e-Store design should be a great support to your business and making it successful for you and to your customers. Proofread Website Content The website content surely counts for any online store and you should proofread the web content before it goes live to your customers. The main ecommerce page should describe well and content of the product description should also be well described. It should excellently represent the vision of your business and to show up to customers what benefits will they get from your website. The users should accurately get all the details of your products available for sale while they visit first time. Provide All Necessary Details One thing that is very important and you should clearly provide all the necessary details to your online shoppers precisely. The customers should have the right to know all the required information about the required products. They should know what you are selling to them before they buy something from your eStore. You can attach a tag describing entire details of your products which will make them feel pride on your services. Thus, it will automatically build customers' trust and long relationship with your business. Be Sincere & Honest Your customers mean you should be really sincere and honest with them. You can imagine the experience when you shop in real. The shopkeepers treat you sincerely and honestly; help you in all the matters. They serve you with their best while shopping and let you feel quite comfortable during buying process. Similarly, the same thing goes here when online shoppers feel pleased with your user-friendly e-store where you have provided everything for them. Send Personalize Emails You must try to create friendly and personalized emails while sending to your online customers. Those emails will surely attract and create excitement to them for visiting and shopping with you. Ideally, this action will make your customers feel pleased as you are paying more courtesy to their orders. Welcome Returning Customers Most of the customers visit, browse and simply leave away without buying anything. Therefore, you should make a strategy for such returning customers to greet them with a pleasant and welcoming back message. This action will show your generosity for valuing them for visiting your website and hopefully they will visit again to check their required products. Availability of Products Return/Exchange Online shoppers always feel nervous about product return and exchange. Suppose, if your customer finds out the purchased product is not suitable or doesn't fit well. You should provide the option for returning or exchanging it without any additional charges. Products Recommendations You should set up a specific recommendation for different products to your old and potential customers. This action will show them you really care about them and taking great interest in being with you. Precisely, recommendations will support you and show them how you concern about their requirements. Hopefully, your recommended products meet the needs which they may have not checked before and now may consider it to buy. Make Simple Checkout System Your online eStore should have a proper eCommerce checkout process, but very simple and fast. The customers will never return to buy anything from your webstore if the checkout process is complex. You should also checkout whether your system is irritating and time-consuming for the customers. Finally, they will admire your simpler checkout system which will admire your customers. Conclusion These ultimate ways will highly improve the user-experience and provide good results to your online eCommerce shoppers. These tips will provide an outstanding success to online shopping businesses. The sharing of these satisfying tips and tricks will serve you great assistance to online shoppers. It will surely generate long business relations and also help you to increase the returning customers to your online web store. E-Commerce has been still focusing on to boost its online physical presence prominently even after passing several years. It has been marketing and selling online products to experience the highest level of services to e-Shoppers. But now, we observe that some new businesses have started their services and are performing negative tactics to build their physical presence online. Their major motive is to boost up their products to their online customers. We all know that such tactics won’t work in this era. Because millions of online customers come to e-Commerce online shopping portals to shop faster. But, such tactics will flee the real e-Shoppers and they will never do online shopping due to their bad experience. Here are some reasons as to why the e-Commerce industry has been lacking the physical presence across the world. Need Specific Directions E-commerce business commonly costs not that much to run it and can easily reach their customers across the world. But, a couple of years back; we see certain reasons for going on to this route. Therefore, we need to create a specific destination to show online physical presence to get back into the business. The companies will competent enough to connect individually with the customers. It means to visit the e-Commerce sites to fulfill their needs. This could become very supportive to build stronger ties to the entire e-Commerce community. Because it supports and capable as a strong brand image among the online shoppers. Lack of Genuine Investment Today, new businesses get started with, just an investment of a few hundred dollars. It means a thought to make possible to open any specific online store in such amount. But, everyone can realize that in no way means that such a few hundred dollars are quite enough to invest in a store for its online physical presence. A fledgling online business must need real means of investment and an, of course, a major amount of labor is required as well. Non User-friendly Website Having the best online physical presence for your business is your well-optimized website development which should be user-friendly in all aspects. Any business plan cannot achieve without your effective website. It has everything to attract the visitors and make them certain to shop their needs. The website should get designed according to the modern e-Commerce formation. It must get fully secured, user-friendly, and entirely functional for e-Shoppers. Moreover, it should manage effective search, mobile, friendly, and need to load very fast. Lacking of Inventory Management Inventory management is, of course, playing a vital role in structuring a real e-Commerce platform, depending on the type of business model. Lacking such factor, it can create one of the most vital glitches for new e-Commerce businesses and will affect the operations as well. Having very little inventory on board will certainly miss out your sales. It can also create disappointment to the online customers. Even, you can ignore the freight costs, associated with getting your required inventory for your business which is also very noteworthy. Missing Precise Product Images Any online e-Commerce business cannot flourish physically without having their precise product images. The specific product images mean highly significant for attracting the e-Shoppers. They may get what they are looking at your website. The ideal showcase product image will make the customers stay on the website and search for their required needs you are selling. So, make sure the product images should clearly and accurately visible in the e-Shoppers while they search for their desired products. Having Less Online Shoppers Any online website cannot get business without having too many visitors. The more people visit any website the more worth will be generated by the website. Having prominent flow of visitors on the website will certainly create the ideal visibility. The physical presence of your store on the search engines bring a positive sign of your business. The flow of visitors creates the real visibility and create the web traffic more to recognize in different search engines. Serious Competition Online businesses have more challenges and have to face serious online competition onto the Internet. As it provides the land of opportunities for everyone, whether a large business or a new small enterprise. Hundreds of online businesses make sure they're on the internet and competing each other in various aspects. But, no one can exist their physical presence online without surviving and facing the serious and significant competition on search engines. Inability To Touch & Try Sometimes, buying something online through any e-Commerce website becomes irritated because one cannot touch and try the product physically. This leads one of the great set back to this industry because people cannot easily trust on such online shopping website, whether the purchased product will deliver at the same one saw on the shopping portal. Even, if the product delivered the right one but still there remains the chances of trying the right size that may easily fit. Understanding of Shopping Portals/Methodologies While shopping at online websites; most of the e-Shoppers face different problems to get to the right industry products. Even, if they get to the exact area they find the ordering process to be very complex and irritating. The most problems created by the website’s navigation system. As some users do not get familiar with the website or its navigation system? Sometimes, the website's navigation creates problems for the users, and sometimes; the drop-down menus, tabs, tags, footer, or breadcrumb methodologies. Credit Card Frauds One of the reasons to Frauds and scams happened while making online payments by customers. So, credit card frauds have become the major issues that are frequently observed or heard while shopping online. One cannot say whether the e-Shoppers are safe or not while purchasing something through online websites. There have been frequent complaints recorded of credit card frauds. Several e-Shoppers have become victims of fraud while making payments through using their credit cards on purchasing different products. User Data Security While online shopping; people also face great setbacks of data security concerns. It generally mentions so as to be confidential and integrity of data. There have been many cases recorded where online shoppers’ confidential data were used for unidentified objects. The threats of online users’ data by unauthorized persons are still a big problem across the world. That’s why people avoid doing online shopping for security concerns. Take Home Immediately One thing which also creates the flaws of online shopping is that one cannot get delivered or take home the purchased products immediately basis. As one has to wait for the purchased stuff till it delivered after complete process of purchasing order. It means if anyone requires something on immediate basis cannot rely on such online shopping facility. Delayed Response to Queries Online shoppers also face one of the major problems of delayed response to certain queries. While ordering online; either the system of processing orders gets hanged up or the systems figure out the queries in quite delays. Many queries remain in pending either from system’s error or for various unidentified reasons. Thus, such circumstances lead to the ineffective services that irritate the customers quite a lot. DotNet Core is the variant of the DotNet framework. It is an open-source cross-platform framework which helps development teams to create scalable, fast and top-performing web applications. With every update, new features are introduced to help developers deploy high-performance and extremely scalable web applications while using minimal code. The latest Asp.NET Core 2.2 puts forward some awe-inspiring features which bring the best aspects from the old .NET framework. Asp.NET Core includes the latest Web Pages, MVC, Web API, Razor, SignalR and what not. You can either use them separately or in the same application. It is known to be Microsoft’s most successful platform and is foreseen as a next-generation development platform. The great thing about Asp.NET Core is that developers need the same expertise to work with Asp. Net Core as for .Net Framework. "Here in this article, we have outlined ASP.NET Core new features to help you find solutions to the problems in your applications and improve efficiency". Latest Features in ASP.NET Core Better Outcomes ASP.NET Core has overshadowed the classic ASP.NET by a factor of 10. It has been guaranteed by Microsoft team that ASP.NET performs much better than the present microservice technologies (Node.js, Go, and Java servlet). It runs way faster than the classic one because of its serialization, compression, networking, concurrency, which are modern in the era of Web APIs. Operational Models Having unified models, the MVC and Web API development models use the same controller base class. This helps the controller to expose the features of HTML (view) and Web Service. The MVC model of ASP.NET Core facilitates the features of building testable web APIs and web applications. Moreover, with the additional built-in support for multiple data formats and content negotiation, your web APIs can be applied across a wide range of platforms, such as browsers and mobile devices. Cross-platform Functionality If we talk about targeting Mac OS, Linux or Unix systems, .Net Core undoubtedly becomes an eminent choice. ASP.Net Core can be used to apply the latest technologies including Docker, Microsoft Azure, Kubernetes, and others. Along with various other functionalities, .NET Core SDK provides many command-line tools to help create, compile, build, and publish a. NET Core application on any OS. Razor Pages Razor pages are yet another new feature presented by ASP.NET Core 2.0. It is yet another aspect of ASP.NET Core MVC that brings ease for the developers in terms of making coding page-focused scenarios easier and more constructive. It is supported by the dependency injection in the startup class. With the introduction of new pages, independent controller views are applied with which the development of scenarios have become more fluid while clarifying your solution's architecture. New Health Checks API ASP.NET Core 2 also contains numerous libraries that explain abstraction and HealthCheck as well as middleware. A project named ‘BeatPulse’ was launched when no health check application libraries were available which filled the gap in the ASP.NET Core ecosystem. ASP.NET Core now supports Microsoft's new Health Checks API. It helped developers aptly and quickly adds health checks to multiple systems and dependencies using them. Dependency addition Dependency injection has always been at the core of development issues as it allows for weak coupling and better code testability. The framework now combines a whole new architecture related to the injection of dependency. ASP.NET Core’s modularity and flexibility rely heavily on dependency injection, which is one of ASP.NET Core’s key features. Since ASP.NET supports native dependency injection management, developers will no longer need third-party tools to accomplish this practice. Swagger Support There’s no denying the fact that swagger has become the most famous technology to explain and design RESTful APIs. ASP.NET Core supports Swagger Open APIs which enables developers to document and develop APIs while retaining code synchronization. Self-Hosting Like traditional versions, ASP.NET Core apps do not require hosting IIS anymore. They can now self-host or host for Linux distributions on Nginx. It arises from the willingness to launch a. NET core application on all platforms independently. Even in production, for the self-hosted application, IIS (or Nginx) is a reverse proxy. SPA Template Asp. Net Core comes with the latest SPA templates for Angular & React. So, now if you are developing a project with SPA templates, all the packages needed for both Angular and React will be preinstalled and will automatically use NPM. Additionally, it is also supporting Angular CLI which comes in handy for developers. Code Help There are numbers of popular APIs supported by ASP.NET Core with .NET Framework in relation to Unix, Linux and OS X-specific APIs. All the common APIs are gathered into .NET Standard which is imposed by .NET Core as well as .NET Framework. This applies that any code targeting .NET Standards can run on NET Core and as well as .NET Framework, due to which the code is conveniently shared between the two platforms. SignalR Integration Along with other handy features which ASP.NET Core has to offer, it also includes adding a Java client to SignalR. A vast library such as of ASP.NET can help send server code to asynchronous notifications to customer-side web applications. As for the Java added client, it supports Java code link to the SignalR Server, including Android apps. Create Caching Asp. Net Core also facilitates Output Cashing which means it supports creating cache for the most repeatedly used resources and static files. So, the next time when a customer opens an application, the cache is going to first serve him. Such an exciting feature can really contribute towards the acceleration of the web application's speed and user experience. Powerful Compilation ASP.NET Core also facilitates powerful compilation which is performed in memory. Thence, as soon as it saves the code changes, a simple browser refresh helps its activation. Moreover, ASP.NET Core 2.2 supports the development of basic minimal web services. So, you can make use of this multi-platform structure for the: • Creation of web applications and services, IoT apps and mobile back-ends. • Using your preferred macOS, Windows, and Linux development tools. • Deployment either in the cloud or locally. • Run-on the. NET Core or. NET Framework. Conclusion: In this article, we tried explaining some of the key and latest features of .Net Framework. Microsoft and the Community together put a lot of efforts and hard work for making .Net Core an efficient and powerful framework which can help developers in developing apps rapidly with the highest level of scalability and performance. The cherry on the top is that any .Net Developer does not need to learn any skill or get any special training to work on .Net Core. This is yet another reason why developers readily embraced .Net Core in a very short span. According to a new report, Hongmeng OS, Huawei’s alternative operating system could be revealed this week. The report, which is uncovered by China’s state-run Global Times, may well be taken with skepticism, but comprises some important information that should be likely to authenticate shortly. It’s reported that Huawei will first boast Hongmeng OS at its developer conference, which will commence this week on Friday, August 9th, in Dongguan, China. The report compares Hongmeng OS to Google’s long-in-the-works Fuchsia, which is likewise a new operating system designed to run on various form factors. It’s said that Hongmeng OS is also built around a microkernel so it can effectively accommodate artificial intelligence and can run on numerous platforms. Nevertheless, it’s also said that a Hongmeng OS smartphone is very much happening and already involved in being tested. The first device could unveil in conjunction with Huawei’s Mate 30 Pro flagship later in the year, with a release date set for the fourth quarter. Nevertheless, the phone is likely to target the lower- and middle-income segments, with pricing set at around 2,000 yuan (~$288). According to the company statement, technology colossus Google is closing its Trips app for cellphones. However, the company is integrating much of the functionality from the service into its Maps app and Search features. While today is the last day for support for the app, information such as notes and saved places will be on hand in Search so long as a user signs into their Google account. If you want to find popular destinations, events, and other attractions, you can search for “my trips” or go to the revamped Travel page on Google. In September 2018, Google came up with changes, which comprised several of the features that had been broken out into the Trips app. Users will shortly be able to add and oversee notes from Google Trips in the Travel section on a browser and find saved attractions, trips and hotels for imminent and previous excursions. In Maps, you can search a destination or find particular legendary places, guide lists, events or eateries by swiping up on the “Explore” tab in the app. And you can go to destinations you have used under the “Your Places” section by tapping the menu icon. The maps app will soon also include forthcoming reservations planned by trip which will be on hand offline, obviating the need to download them. Augmented analytics is one of the recent developments for business intelligence tools. We are living in a digital age. Not only data, but big data: datasets have become so enormous, complex, and fast-moving that traditional BI solutions simply cannot handle them. Either they fail to get the data, to handle the data, to prepare the data, or simply to understand the data... but we must handle it! Data is everywhere and more of it is being produced all the time. If your organization is going to thrive, it requires uncovering the insights hidden in your data. Digging through this data is hard, but with the correct tools, it can be done. But how will you identify the solution to your changing data needs? And what does all this have to do with augmented analytics? Here we are going to answer what is augmented analytics and can it add value to the business. What are Augmented Analytics? Augmented analytics solutions have gained traction in the business intelligence world. Augmented analytics is intended in practical terms to facilitate more development and help create more revenue. According to Gartner: “Augmented Analytics Is the Future of Data and Analytics” “Augmented analytics uses machine learning/ artificial intelligence (ML/AI) techniques to automate data preparation, insight discovery, and sharing. It also automates data science and ML model development, management and deployment.” In simpler terms, everything related to the process of analytics and business intelligence will be changed by artificial intelligence analytics by simplifying or eliminating some steps and thoroughly changing and improving the others. How is Augmented Analytics Different than a Typical Business Intelligence Model? If you compare augmented analytics with a usual business model, data analysts reach data through testing their hypotheses and theories while operating on a principle of knowledge. Although, we cannot doubt the knowledge of data analysts, but their viewpoints will always limit people in some capacity. It is quite difficult to show a thorough, unbiased and entirely correct conclusion without being aware of every factor that might influence the results. This implicates a lot of business are potentially working with limited views of their data landscapes, leaving money on the table. But if we talk about augmented analytics, it invokes the power of machine learning to process way faster than humans can. As machine learning has a very little human interference which makes algorithms uninclined to the biases. Augmented analytics, therefore, empowers business users to perform on the insights they receive, allowing data scientists to concentrate on much more complicated queries. How Can Augmented Analytics Add Significance to Business Intelligence? Augmented analytics approach to business intelligence has countless advantages and, with the right self-serve analytics and data discovery tool, the average enterprise can expand these benefits and add even more value. We are listing some of the benefits to augmented analytics approach to business intelligence. Or in other words, here are just a variety of ways that self-serve augmented analytics can add value to business intelligence. Sets Focus Augmented Analytics solution helps analysts, data scientists, and inner IT staff to center on crucial projects as well as offer support to strategic problems which results in releasing them from centering on the business community's day-to-day analytical requirements. Empowers Business Users As augmented analytics provide critical information itself, it enables business users to put a focus on their goals. Also, it provides objective metrics and allows data sharing which advance business interests. Easy to Use Interface In an easy-to-use interface, it offers complex, advanced techniques and tools to collect data from disparate data sources and enable confident, precise and accurate decisions to be made. Simplified Toolkit With augmented analytics simplified tools you can improve user adoption, data sharing, data popularity advancement, the integration of social BI within the organization and data and metrics literacy. Enhanced ROI and TCO Augmented Analytics delivers immediate, objective results and enhances ROI and TCO. Apt Business Forecast Another business benefit of this approach is perfect business forecasting and predictions. Augmented analytics offers metrics so that one can be sure that the right decisions are made and that the business takes suitable action with regard to products and services, pricing, competition, and other key business factors. Augmented Analytics Tools and BI In order to automate the operations of data, augmented analytics uses the power of machine learning which helps find insights as well as share the insights for business users, operational staff and data scientists. Augmented data discovery, augmented data science and machine learning, and augmented data preparation are counted among the key capabilities of augmented analytics tools. Augmented data preparation has its focus on automating data intake into analytics systems in a system that involves data modelling, metadata adding, data profiling, data quality assurance, and catalogue storage. With augmented data discovery, relevant data is provided to users via automating, visualizing and narrating relevant findings. The skill-gap needed for model building to test new hypotheses or write algorithms can also be attained with the help of machine learning. Startups and big vendors have the potential to disrupt data integration, leading BI and analytics, data science and embedded data analytics vendors. A more precise take on Augmented Analytics Tools In their interaction with top BI vendors, an analytics manager must consider supporting the following five augmented analytics capabilities: It has been predicted by Gartner that by 2020, natural-language generation and artificial intelligence will be a standard feature of 90% of modern BI platforms. So, users must be able to use the power of text-based-voice enabled technology in order to interact with data in a conversational mode. BI tools with augmented analytics functionality should be able to use the power of language to narrate performance results in an interactive way leaving behind complexities. The system should be easily able to forecast; what is the best visual for specific data, how to enrich data for deeper analysis and understanding, and how to clean and plan data for business use. This also comprises the use of algorithms to train predictive models for all types of cases of use, such as churn, attrition or behavior. Augmented analytics tools should be able to drill more profoundly into what drives particular performance. These tools should be able to bring in their own insights to the process to help their hypotheses by seeking out results. The tools need to identify the behavior of outliers differently from the expected outcomes. Furthermore, describing the data, identifying key drivers and explaining what segments affect the results are essential for these algorithms. These tools must have the ability to predict and predict a trend; recognize cluster groups and outliers by clicking a button like values. Additionally, this process involves the use of algorithms to train predictive models for all types of use cases based on churn, attrition or user behavior. Some new content through the Web is not appearing in search results as Google is confronting problems related to index today. For instance, a quick glance at the Top Stories in Google News reveals that some of the stories are from the last few hours, but many are from yesterday. The issues were first reported by Search Engine Land. On Thursday, the company established that it was reviewing reports of indexing problems, later adding that it was seeing “issues in the URL Inspection tool within Search Console.” According to Google, the URL problem was rectified as of 11:41AM ET, but no update has been provided on indexing. Google announced that it is working to fix the issue. To find new text to display users, Google is continually crawling the internet. When Google undergoes issues with indexing, like it does today, search results won’t be as accurate as users expect from tech behemoth. Of late, Google has faced a slew of indexing issues, including problems that lasted for a week in April and more than three days in May. Over the past 71 years, Pakistan’s growth in IT sector, when considering overall, is first disappointing but from the past 10 to 15 years marked as splendid! The industries we got are 34 in total out of more than 900 industries and in those industries the number of IT industries are minimal. After time passed and Pakistan stood up, it started using the resources for the rapid development and growth of the IT industry. There is no doubt that Pakistan has talented and enthusiastic generations from the time when it was declared a separate state till now which is the reason for the spectacular emergence and economic growth. The starting years were very difficult for all industries including IT where no such achievements were made and there was no one who really had an eye on it because of other challenges Pakistan was facing like political instability, energy deficit and lack of promotions. In a nutshell, the era from the time when Pakistan was made till 1990 was not in the favor of Pakistan with respect to IT industry but after that time, the Information Technology (IT) sector of Pakistan is bolstering and growing with a remarkable pace whether talk about a local market or export services. According to the recent survey, the overall business has crossed 3.3 billion in the year 2018 and 2.8 billion in the duration of 2016-2017 as per the record of Pakistan Software Export Board (PSEB). Other industries need heavy machinery, infrastructure, and tools while the IT industry needs no such giant contributions which turn to be a plus point for Pakistan. Information Technology only requires people who can innovate and adapt the changes dynamically and Pakistan is blessed with such geniuses. Now Pakistan’s IT industry is emerging internationally and getting the coverage of enormous inventions and solutions made by Pakistani people. More than one hundred thousand employments are official, and many other people are informally employed in this field. It is our bad that IT industry didn’t get the same industry status as of textile and other industries have got. If the Government takes necessary actions in promoting and providing education the IT industry need, then surely, we can make a ground-breaking effect on GDP and foreign direct investment. Over the last four years, the growth rate is 97 percent approximately in the field of IT. Information and Communication Technologies (ICTs) grasp global importance and is empowering economics which helps in triggering the growth of all other sectors. Contribution of Government of Pakistan in the IT industry In the year 2000, the first IT policy and implementation strategy was approved that became a pillar of founding new industries and developing new technologies. In 2002, a training and teaching program was initiated for the teachers in Pakistan led by Intel and requested by Prof. Atta-ur-Rahman that gave us 220,000 trained teachers from almost 70 districts without a need of spending a penny by the government. There is no doubt in saying that Prof. Atta-ur-Rahman is the reason for rising in the IT industry of Pakistan. He was the one serving this industry from head to toe for the development which leads to introducing reforms and increase the research productivity in Pakistan. Since then, Pakistan got the highest increase rate of highly cited papers in comparison to other big countries. In 2001, it was reported that Pakistan has more than 20 million internet users and it was the highest rate recorded in the countries registered as a high growth rate in internet penetration. In the duration of 2003-2005, Pakistan’s IT exports got a rising level of 50 percent increment and the total amount was about 48.5 million USD. In the year 2012-2013 GOP decided to spend 4.6 billion on the IT projects and introduced the e-government, infrastructure and human resource development. During the last decade, IT sector got incentives from the government of Pakistan to the establishment and development of new industries in this sector. The duration of 2013-2015 was the ground-breaking era of revolution in the IT industry as 3g/4g technologies are launched. The launch of computerized e-government systems creating effective progress in all major like departments like law enforcement agencies, police and district administrations. The National Database Registration and Authority (NADRA) has also a computerized system that helps the organization in keeping correct information and issuing important documents. Civil services and other government department are improved by introducing such a system that is making critical working easier. UN published a study of “Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific” (ESCAP), in which the UN mentioned Pakistan as a highly emerging country after the introduction of e-commerce and e-governance. After the government initiatives and introduction of new policies in the IT sector, software development start growing rapidly which eventually become the cause of increment in export services. People are educating themselves and hired by renowned companies which are developing more services and innovating new businesses in Pakistan. Big industries like textiles, pharmaceuticals, food and beverages and more are now adapting the software services to work with more accuracy and increased development. Mobile application and game development are another great achievement of Pakistan that fascinates the young generation and they are enthusiastic in learning and developing new games and applications. They are now getting international fame by making innovative applications that help in solving critical global problems. Educational institutes are now offering diploma courses and other short courses in software development for the young generation who are surely going to make this industry a topper. Above discussion testifies that Pakistan has massive potential growth in the IT industry. There is a requirement for huge improvement and advancement to compete with other developing nations. With clear direction and strategic planning, Pakistan can be among the most advanced nations with respect to IT industry and also helps in the alleviation of poverty. Now is the time for Pakistan to make it or break it as in the Fourth Industrial revolution the world is at the same scale in IT field and the one who struggles the most will be going to rule in this fourth IR. Machine Learning which leads all other jobs among technology world. Data Science and Machine Learning are playing a boss role for all other technologies. Be it restorative or building it is adaptable to serve all sort of fields. To deal with Data Science, we should have the top Machine Learning tools, software, and frameworks to work on. These tools should give the outcomes which lead to 100% accuracy as we have an immense measure of training data which may be totally messy (in most cases). What's more? These tools give the best results when we build well-defined software for them. However today, a machine can act by itself and is working well in this environment. This fruitful change is only achievable by making machine learning tools much effective. There are a lot of machine learning tools for beginners. The absolute best machine learning software and tools to learn in 2019 are mentioned below irrespective of any ranking: 1. Google Cloud ML Engine Data, if look closely it has detailing in it and if talking about individual’s data all around the world then you have millions and billions of training data. Your PC will not be able to execute this much long listing or even your algorithm doesn’t work here. What will you do now? Here comes a tool named as Google Cloud ML Engine. This tool can let your data train the way you want. Data scientists run their high-quality machine learning models using this tool. Key Features: Gives ML model building, predictive modelling, training, and deep learning. Prediction and training can be used in both ways either jointly or independently. Google Cloud ML Engine is utilized by the ventures to work on client's email or messages or to detect the clouds you have in the image captured by satellites. It very well may be utilized to prepare an unpredictable and complex model. 2. Amazon Machine Learning (AML) A cloud-based machine learning software which is strong and easy to use by the developers working on different levels. To generate predictions and building high-quality machine learning models, developers are using this tool. Data integration is done by coordinating different sources like Amazon S3 and more. Key Features: The highlighted features AML provides are the visualization tools and wizards. Binary classification, multi-class classification, and regression models are utilized. MySQL database utilization to create data source object. Amazon Redshift is another source provided where data is stored from which you can create data source object. Evaluating the concepts of Data sources, ML models, Evaluations, Batch predictions, and Real-time predictions. 3. Apache Mahout A simple framework works on linear algebra and expressed in Scala DSL. A free and open source undertaking of the Apache Software Foundation. This system works on the objective of implementing the algorithm rapidly for information researchers, mathematicians, and analysts. Key Features: Helps in building adaptable algorithms by the framework which is designed to allow new capabilities and functionality. Perform machine learning techniques, some of them are clustering, classification, and recommendation. It incorporates matrix and vector libraries which helps in handling the data easily. It used the paradigm of MapReduce and Apache Hadoop. 4. Accord.NET Another machine learning framework which work on both audio and image processing libraries written in C# is Accord.NET. It comprises of different libraries having a wide scope of utilization incorporating linear algebra, pattern recognition, and statistical data processing. Accord.Math, Accord.Statistics, and Accord.MachineLearning are the libraries working for Acoord.NET. Key Features: Accord.NET helps in multiple departments like signal processing, computer vision, computer audition and statistics applications. Comprises of in excess of 40 parametric and non-parametric estimation of statistical distributions. Having hypothesis testing ability which includes more than 35 tests like non-parametric tests, one way and two-way ANOVA tests, and more. Having more than 38 Kernal functions. 5. Shogun Shogun, an open source machine learning library created in 1999 by Soeren Sonnenburg and Gunnar Raetsch. A C++ written tool which solves machine learning problems by the algorithms and data structures it provides. It bolsters numerous languages like Python, R, Octave, Java, C#, Ruby, Lua, and so on. Key Features: The development of this tool is done for large scale learning. It centers around Kernal machines like support vector machines for classification and regression problem. It helps in connecting other machine learning libraries like LibSVM, LibLinear, SVMLight, LibOCAS, and more. Python, Lua, Octave, Java, C#, Ruby, MatLab, and R can use the interface of this tool. Data that can be processed on this tool can be in million samples. 6. Oryx 2 An acknowledgment of the lambda engineering. Oryx 2 is based on Apache Spark and Apache Kafka. It is utilized for ongoing enormous machine learning works. Oryx 2 works for developing applications like end-to-end applications for filtering, classification, regression, and clustering. Oryx 2.8.0 is the latest version running in the market. Key Features: Updated version of Oryx 1 with more advancements to lead the data with accuracy. Tiers: Generic lambda architecture tier Specialization on top providing ML abstractions End-to-end implementation of the same standard ML algorithms Layers: Batch layer Speed layer Serving layer Also a data transport layer is there for transferring the data among layers to receive the input from external sources. 7. Apache Singa In 2014, Apache Singa came into existence by DB System Group at the National University of Singapore in a joint effort with the database group of Zhejiang University. This software used for Natural Language Processing (NLP) and image recognition and bolster a wide scope of mainstream deep learning models. This software comprises three fundamental parts: Core, IO, and Model. Key Features: Adaptable engineering for versatile distributive training Tensor abstraction is taken into account further developed machine learning models This device incorporates upgraded IO classes for composing, learning, encoding and decoding documents and information This device incorporates upgraded IO classes for composing, learning, encoding and decoding documents and information Device essential featuring is supported for running on hardware devices 8. Google ML Kit for Mobile It is safe to say that you are a versatile developer? No worries. Google's Android Team brings an ML KIT for you which bundles up the machine learning aptitude and innovation to grow progressively robust, customized, and advanced applications to keep running on a gadget. You can utilize this instrument for face and image recognition, image labelling, locating places and standardized identification examining applications. Key Features: It offers ground-breaking advancements Run on a specific device or in the devices connected with cloud system Works on the solutions by making custom models 9. Apple’s Core ML To integrate machine learning models into your app another machine learning framework is playing a role known as Apple's Core ML. Use your ML model by dropping it’s file into your project and the Objective-C or Swift wrapper class consequently is formed by the Xcode. This software provides maximum execution and extreme performance on every processor you are using (CPU and GPU). Key Features: Goes about as an establishment for the systems and functions that are domain-specific On-device performance is optimized at maximum level It is easy to understand by low-level natives 10. TensorFlow TensorFlow is another big name known by every machine learning expert. Created by Google for building ML models on its open-source platform. It has an adaptable plan of libraries and assets that enable developers to create applications. Key Features: A listing of deep learning mechanism Exceedingly adaptable open-source software Using high-level APIs to train and execute the ML models Making numerical calculations easy by data flow graphs As per the study done by Adobe Analytics, usage of podcast mobile app has increased 60% since January 2018. The study says that the usage of the app is likely to grow even further as 45% of listeners plan to tune into more podcasts in the future. The study, which consisted of 193 million monthly exclusive visitors to U.S. mobile apps, discovered that 41% of podcast finding happens through online sources such as blogs and articles. According to the report, almost 72% of respondents notice podcast quality to be on the increase, with just 6% think that quality is declining. Nearly 52% of respondents said they listen to podcasts while working or traveling. According to the study, education, history, and documentary were found to be the four most popular genres, while video games were among the least popular. The majority—60%—of listeners said that only after hearing it on a podcast did they look up a service or product, with 25% reporting that they ended up making the purchase. Nevertheless, 58% of respondents said they avoided podcast ads. The podcast sector’s impetus raises the feasibility of podcast advertising to reach a mounting audience. And, since more data is on hand from diverse platforms like Spotify, advertisers have more targeting skills to help them get closer to the listeners that are almost certain to be interested in their products or services. Human loves their unpredictable nature and love working on things which we want to work without anyone’s interference and imposed behaviors. It is a complicated behavior but after the fourth industrial revolution and with the emergence of Artificial Intelligence human become more predictable. How AI has impacted on human’s life and how it is able to learn human behaviors? Let first understand what AI is. The best and the most common example when talking about AI is self-driving cars. Artificial means simply creating something by a human, the real thing to know is that what do you mean by intelligence? It is the ability to acquire knowledge and the problem-solving skills required to solve different problems. Basically, AI is the simulation of human intelligence which is processed by machines. These processes include the learning what information we have and what rules are needed to solve the problem, reasoning which gives definite approximated results and then correction after getting the results. After understanding AI let’s get to know a little about its types to make our understandings better. Types of AI An assistant professor of Michigan State University Arend Hintze proposed and categorized AI into 4 types. Type 1: Reactive machines A chess program made by IBM called Deep Blue is an example of Reactive machines. The program analyses and identify the pieces on the board and from the locations it makes predictions. A sad part is there is no memory to use past experiences which are necessary for future predictions. It analyses what moves can be possible by both sides of the teams and then chooses to take a step with making a strategy. Type 2: Limited Memory In this type, AI systems work on past experiences to make future predictions. A self-driving car is an example lies here. Through observations, the near future actions are performed. These actions will be removed from memory after some time. Type 3: Theory of mind Theory of mind refers to the human ability to aspire, his faith and his intentions which are giving him results with the decisions he makes. There is no working done on this type of AI. Type 4: Self-awareness In this type, AI has its own senses to observe and work accordingly. Systems are self-aware that what others are feeling and how to use this information. There is no working done on this type of AI. How AI Actually Helps in Learning Human Behaviour In past eras, human behavior was unpredictable because there was no such thing to analyze and track how human take a decision and what process they make to take decisions. Today, the advanced systems and the ability of deep learning which stores a huge amount of data we are now able to parse the data to learn the patterns which can be operated by people. A seller ask himself a question: How I can sell my products more? What you think the answer would be? Yes, you are right if you are thinking it’s the data. However, the main point is how you use the data to make it beneficial for you! The most selling product in market is food. We are always thinking about what our next meal should be. There we make a decision by going out or eating at home, or by choosing a meal type. It is difficult in predicting what next meal we are going to eat. If I am having a list of meals that tells what I’ve eaten for the last four to six months maybe, I am able to predict my next meal by those patterns of meals. But the result may not be accurate because my previous meals are not the only thing that helps me in predicting my future meal. There are a lot of different factors on which my next meal is dependent like what kind of breakfast I had, if I need a heavy lunch or a lighter one or what exactly I am craving for and there will be a lot more reasons which can make my predictions inaccurate. The collection would take years of working to find a pattern which can predict with accuracy. In the above scenario, I am just talking about my data but what a seller really needs? He needs data of millions of people in order to understand what they should offer. AI is making it easy by collecting data and human behaviors on a vast scale so that executives can understand what strategy they should achieve to gather the attention of people. This complicated behavior of human is having logics but sometimes, it acts as illogically. It comes when we are in emotions which are not understandable at all. We are not able to get why and for what reason we are having such emotions and why we are performing some particular action. We can say that our culture, our thinking mechanism and what we perceive from our surroundings is a big reason behind this behavior. So, it means psychology is having a vital role in human nature. Of course, it has! Just think about how much data we have to store to understand all such behaviors and what would human do if it is his job to store all that data. The result will only be errors and wrong patterns. Here again, the master, the AI is giving results with accuracy. There are tools created which can sense the stress and anxiety people have which helps in controlling and understanding one’s behavior. Moreover, other AI tools are helping human in physical conditions and daily routines to maintain a happy and healthy life. It may grab your attention that AI can end up being powerful when utilized as a showcasing tool. In 2019, we are managing genuine restrictions where it turns out to be quite difficult to distinguish how far communication can follow human behavior. Here predictive modeling is giving us insights and rapid results in behavioral changes. A model of AI learns and know how to interrupt and what actions to perform that are best suited to a particular person. Facebook’s daring attempt to create a global digital currency that promotes financial inclusion for the unbanked has caused quite a stir in the world! What is Libra? It’s a “global currency and financial infrastructure” that lets you send money all over the world with lower fees than other banking services like the Western Union. The initial value for Libra will be close to the value of a dollar, euro or pound. Libra will run on a blockchain platform called the Libra Network. Calibra is now a subsidiary of Facebook, which is designed to provide financial services. Will Libra shake up financial services? Libra will allow its billions of users to make financial transactions across the world. The cryptocurrency is being branded as a means to connect people who do not have access to traditional banking platforms. What are Libra’s prospects? The currency is being developed by Facebook, but the company intends to share control with a group of organizations, including venture capital firms, credit card companies, and other technology giants. When is the currency expected to launch? Facebook intends to release Libra in the first half of 2020. A new report by the Financial Times alleges that tech giant Apple has committed a staggering $5 billion dollars more to its original video content budget in an effort to effectively vie with Amazon, Disney, HBO, Netflix, and Hulu. The company had initially earmarked $1 billion for former Sony Pictures Television officials Jamie Erlicht and Zack Van Amburg to invite renowned creators and Hollywood stars to its platform. According to the publication, that number has risen to $6 billion as more shows have moved through production and budgets have swollen. The FT says that one production has cost Apple hundreds of millions of dollars, while separately Apple is reported to be spending $300 million on just the first two seasons of the show. Apple’s inclination to instantly match what Netflix was spending yearly on original content only a few years ago shows how intense the streaming wars are set to become in the coming months and years. Apple’s TV Plus service mounts this autumn, secured by a set of other programming with big names like Oprah Winfrey and Steven Spielberg. The company’s services chief Eddy Cue has said the tech behemoth plans to add new content at a slower pace than its soon-to-be competitors, with a prioritization on quality over quantity. Nevertheless, Apple will be going up against not just current streaming titans, but also novices like Disney. In 2020, there will also be WarnerMedia’s new HBO Max to deal with, a new streaming service that is likely to mix live TV, including news and sports, and a wider variety of content from across every WarnerMedia property with all of HBO’s current offerings. In the meantime, Amazon, Disney, and Netflix are spending staggering amounts of money to vie with one another. We are living in the modern world where it is hard to find someone without a smartphone without any mobile applications installed. It has become a necessity for reaching people. And as long as smartphones/tabs are growing in numbers, there is no doubt that the mobile app industry will continue to boom its revenue and bring jobs for people. So, to start up an app business you need to write down a business plan which is a very crucial element in the app development process. Below we have sketched what you actually need to include in your business plan before launching a mobile application. Business Plan Template Executive Summary The first and most important part of your business plan is the executive summary. It is the first things that get a read by the investors. It’s a crucial part of your business plan template which should be clear and concise; also, remember less is more here. Problem A problem is a complexity that a consumer is facing which has not been addressed or not rightly tackled yet. Also, it should also depict that this complexity or problems impact people enough and hence how this shortcoming or complexity needs to cope up. Solution It is referred here as the solution to the complexity that is faced. You need to introduce how your app is the best solution to the problems faced by the consumers. Explain enthusiastically why your app is the potential solution for companies or people and how it addresses the problem faced. Value Proposition A unique value proposition makes you stand out of the crowd. It differentiates your business from competitors in the market. And using unique value proposition means your it shouldn’t be common and be the only entity in the world that can claim it. And very precisely, for being the best among all you need to invest your time, money and some good resources which others may lack. Goals Make sure your goal aligns with the solution you provided. It is what investors need to know and you need to explain what success looks like. Consider explaining your success definition, time frame and your exit plan in the goals section. Company details For any app to work, the team plays a significant role. And for investors, the company section of your business plan is the most important you need to explain the history of your company where you briefly need to explain the brief about the idea that motivated you to start the business. Also, the expert management and advisory team you got in the house. This is why accelerators like Y-Combinator base most of their decisions on the founding team and company potential. Marketing Plan The marketing plan isn’t consistent and iterates during the initial years as per requirement. Investors seek for such a marketing plan that will persuade users/customers to get their hands-on product/service. Customer Acquisition Strategy Under this heading, you have to jot down your basic strategies that will help in customer acquisition. Mention each approach and tactic you’ve planned for acquiring customers. Explain thoroughly how much it will cost to acquire one customer (CAC) from each channel but make sure to give a realistic expectation. Try to be specific and quantitative. This is what an investor is looking for at this stage. Product Driven Growth It is imperative to build a referral program into your app to leverage network effects if you are looking for a business model that requires a great mainstream user base. Uber app is one such success with which you get a coupon for the next ride you are going to take. Moreover, your friends also get the coupon for taking their first rides with Uber. Key Metrics It's simple for startup founders to rely on "vanity metrics" or metrics that make it look like you're doing good enough, but in fact, you're not on the road to sustainable business. Therefore, you need to pick one or two metrics that you plan on focusing on that matter specifically for your business. For instance, if you're a social app, active users on a regular basis may be more crucial than your full number of downloads. Financial Plan After all the other sections of the business plan has been read by the investor, you must show them what kind of investments you’ll be needing for your app. So, you must know what and how much finances you need meanwhile you must inform the investor where their money is going. The financial model generally involves a three-to-five-year forecast of all major forecast models, including profit and loss, money flow, balance sheets, start tables, and valuation. Monetization Strategy Here are some of the ways to monetize an app: Advertising: If you are among the running social app and people spend time scrolling through your feed, then advertising is the best way to monetize from your app. Paid: Most of the running apps are free today. The strategy is to keep your app free and once the user gets involved you may then charge for the extra features. However, if you have a paid app business model, explain how you will get over this hurdle. In-App Purchases: In-app purchases are a very prevalent model of monetization. We see these most common in games and other gamification applications. Subscription: Subscription models perform because they keep billing individuals until they decide to stop subscribing. Startup Cost Whoever is investing must know what everything is going to cost and what are the variables. Depending on the complexity of the app’s features and developer’s rates, the cost of app design and development varies greatly. However, some prices remain constant for instance, subscriptions salaries, office rent, etc. while the others are going to increase as your business scales, e.g. server space. Make your price predictions on your revenue so that the investor can see how the business should grow over time, and ultimately begin registering a profit. Funding The final part is the integral one since it is the stage where you will ask for the funding you need. You must be well informed enough to sketch how much time and funding is needed to attain profitability. This is the amount you ask for and in return, you justify what you are giving. work on how long it will take to bootstrap until profitability - once you've got an app to launch. Machine Learning and deep learning have gained a lot of popularity in recent years. Both are the subsets of artificial intelligence. Often, both the terms have been seen using interchangeably but both have a lot of differences. Examples of machine learning and deep learning are all around. It's how Netflix understands which show you're going to watch next, how Facebook recognizes whose face is in a picture, what makes self-driving cars a reality and a lot more. So, let us start with the basic enlightenment of both the terms What is Machine Learning and Deep Learning? So, AI is an all-encompassing term that originally erupted, followed by ML that thrived later, and finally, DL that is promising to scale AI's progress to another level. Machine learning is the best tool to analyze, comprehend and recognize data patterns so far. The main idea behind ML is that a computer is trained in a way to automate duties that are exhausting or complex to humans. It takes decisions with minimal human interference. Machine learning incorporates data to deliver an algorithm which can comprehend the connection between input and output. When the machine has fulfilled the learning, the value or class of the new data point can be predicted. On the other hand, deep learning uses different layers to learn from data. It is also often called machine learning as it copies the network of neurons in a brain. The learning phase in deep learning is completed through a neural network which is an architecture in which layers are piled on top of each other. Comparison Between Machine Learning and Deep Learning Since you have understood the basic definition of machine learning and deep learning, let us now dig deep into the differences between both of them. Data Dependencies We will start off with the major difference between the two algorithms which is the ‘performance’. Deep learning algorithms require a huge amount of data to understand completely hence if the data is small DL algorithms do not work rightly. While in machine learning their handcrafted rules prevail in this setting. Hardware Dependencies Among both the algorithms, deep learning severely depends on high-end machines as compared to traditional machine learning which can swiftly work on low-end machines. Consequently, deep learning requirement comprises GPUs which is a fundamental part of its working. Comparatively, Deep learning algorithms do a large amount of matrix multiplication operations. All of these operations can be proficiently optimized by means of a GPU because it is made for this purpose. Feature Engineering Feature Engineering is a method of placing domain knowledge into the development of feature extractors to lessen data complexity and make patterns more visible for learning algorithms to function. This method is tricky and costly in terms of time and expertise. In machine learning, most of the characteristics used need to be recognized by the specialist and then hand-coded as per domain and data type. While deep learning algorithms try to learn high-level features from data. This is a very unique component of deep learning and a significant step forward in traditional machine learning. Deep learning thus minimizes the task of developing a new feature extractor for every problem. Problem Solving Approach The traditional machine learning algorithm is generally needed to break a problem into different parts to solve them individually and combine them to get the result. In contrast, deep learning backs to solve the problem end-to-end, such as logistic issues. Let’s further explain it with an example. You are asked to detect multiple objects. In this task, we need to specify what the object is and where it is present in the picture. So, in the machine learning algorithm, this problem gets to divide into object detection and object recognition. First of all, we use the grabcut algorithm to skim through the picture and discover all possible items. Then, of all recognized objects, you would use an object recognition algorithm such as SVM with HOG to identify applicable objects. On the contrary, deep learning algorithm would perform the whole process end-to-end. Execution Time Deep Learning usually requires more time to train compared to machine learning. Because of the fact that there are so many parameters in a deep learning algorithm. On the other side, machine learning requires a lot less time to train, from a few seconds to a few hours. But if we talk about testing time, the turn is completely opposite. The deep learning algorithm requires a lot less time to operate. Whereas, if you compare it with the nearest neighbors (a type of machine learning algorithm), the test time improves by increasing the size of the data. Interpretability Interpretability is the main factor deep learning is still thought 10 times before its use in industry. For instance, an automated marking of a test is done. The scoring done is accurate and quite human-like. But it does not explain why such marks or score were given. You can find out later which nodes of the neural network were activated, but we don't understand what the neurons were intended to model and what these layers of neurons were doing together anyway. So, we fail to interpret the results. While in machine learning algorithms such as decision trees offer us all the details we look for as to why it chose what has been marked. so, it is particularly simple to interpret the reasoning behind them. Therefore, algorithms such as decision trees and linear/logistic regression are mainly used for interpretability in the industry. Tech giant Google has come up with its flagship app, Google Go’, which is on had to users all over the globe. Earlier, the search app was only available in a handful of countries where most of the users use low-spec Android phones. Optimized to run swiftly on low-spec Android phones, Google Go also performs highly effectively in places where wireless connections tend to be slow or uneven. Well aware of the fact that a large number of people can also take advantage of a lightweight Google app, Google has decided to unveil the app to all Android users: “Millions of people have already used Google Go to find information on the web and make sense of the world around them. But we know that people everywhere can sometimes struggle with spotty connections, phone storage, and reading or translating text.” The app offers some cutting-edge features such as the capacity to read out content loud, besides using less memory, less storage, and working well with blotchy internet connections. The app can also read web pages in as many as 28 languages, even on slower connections like 2G, besides reading content taken in pictures with Google Lens. The feature uses artificial intelligence to ascertain which parts of a page to read and which to omit, obviating the need to read things like text ads in between paragraphs. Just like a podcast, users can also listen to the audio on its own, or follow on the screen as words get underlined while they’re read out loud. And whenever the connection gets disrupted, Google Go will remember your location and recover the last set of search results once the connection is restored. The search app is available now on the Play Store for Android devices. Social media marketing offers business activities on social media platforms which can help businesses in attaining objectives in terms of brand awareness, website traffic as well as customer acquisition. This marketing is done through content in the form of videos, images, texts, community engagement and paid ads. Digital marketing is an ever-evolving landscape and there’s always a room for improvement. There’s no sure shot experimented formula for any successful marketing strategy because of the constantly evolving nature of this field. Too many businesses go into social media marketing on an ad hoc basis. Businesses need to plan a strategy which they should be able to operate in a thoughtful and tested way. In case if you don’t, you may lag behind in the race of your competitors. Below we are going to share some super social media marketing tips in order to make you win out over your competitors. Let’s begin! First, Know What Each Social Media Platform has to Offer Every social media platform offers different strategies. For instance, Twitter is best for word play for your business where you get to interact via retweets while Instagram promotes your products through beautiful images. Make sure your marketing strategy should depict your brand’s purpose on all social media platforms in the right way. Here is a breakdown of what some of the major social media platforms have to offer. Facebook - Facebook is the platform which has gotten most of the traffic as compared to other social media platforms. Light and entertaining content in the form of videos and news works best for this medium. Twitter – As I mentioned earlier, Twitter is all about wordplay in the form of news and sharing your opinions and views is encouraged here. Retweeting and hashtags are key players on Twitter. LinkedIn – It works as a social hub for professionals where industry articles, to the point sentences and interesting data, is catered. Instagram – Pictures, quotes short videos do great on Instagram. It is best suited for visual brands. Pinterest –This medium supports visuals of all sizes unlike Instagram where you have to put pictures in a square frame, Pinterest supports square to infographic size images. People also look for inspiration here. Posting Time Slots The posting times play a vital role in capturing the audience. So, you must do proper research and find out when your audience is most active on social media so you can post content when it is the ideal time for your brand and ensure the utmost level of engagement. After doing some research, we have identified the top days and posting times on social media. Instagram – Monday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday, between 11 am – 1 pm. Facebook – Wednesday, Thursday and Friday, between 12 – 4 pm. Twitter – Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday around 12 pm. LinkedIn - Tuesday, Wednesday or Thursday between 5 and 6 pm. Although, these are the prime times for posting. Do a little research on your own audience and see when they are most active. Joining these observations will allow you to identify accurately when your brand should be posting on each platform to assure that you interact with your target audience. Incorporate Live Streaming Going live on social networks has become a powerful tool Whether it’s Facebook, YouTube, Instagram, etc. It is rapidly gaining ground in the world of internet and social media marketing. You can go live anytime showing your business goods, or yourself in real-time and gain their trust. You may also take this opportunity to introduce a new product, run a Q&A, or share behind the scenes going on at your business! Incorporating a live streaming video strategy into your content campaigns is one of the finest social media marketing tips on can offer. Online Reviews are Pivotal When was the last time you looked for reviews before you wanted to shop something and be sure about it? That’s exactly what happens with others. Online reviews are pivotal for any brand. People believe in the word of mouth more than anything. So, ask your bona fide customers to leave positive reviews. Or you may also incentivize the new customers on leaving reviews. It is one of the best ways to give business more customers. Utilize Facebook Messenger Chatbots Facebook Messenger marketing is a new kind of email marketing. It has over a million monthly users which makes it a great tool for connecting with millions of existing and future customers. Smart brands are already enjoying its benefits. Furthermore, chatbots are a great help. They provide customers the prospect to get answers and/or interact instantly with the brand which makes feels very satisfied. Chatbots are the best assistants for businesses. Video/Visual Content is a Winner More than anything, visuals are catchy to the eyes. With the platform targeting to become a genuine hub for video streaming, its focus on video will only expand in 2019. Videos cater to the attention of users and keep them engaged. No matter the budget and resources, several things can be done to make video content attractive: whether it's professionally filmed in the studio, deliberately informal on the mobile, stop motion or animation - it can work for businesses. Most importantly, Facebook video is the best source of content that will boost your brand and align you on your way to success. Influencer Marketing is Doing Great This is the bandwagon you should rightly jump on. People these days are following influencers and consider their say in business or products. Influencer marketing is basically word of mouth of people who have a position in a certain niche, people follow them and form an opinion about a business or product depending on their review/opinion. They could be anyone from celebrities, Instagram users with a huge following and YouTube stars to well-known bloggers who help spread the word about your business or product through their social channels. Working with influencers will ramp up your visibility, strengthen the trust and recognition of your brand, help you generate leads and increase your revenue. Influencer marketing has a great ROI when performed intelligently and I suggest that you start focusing on the influencers as soon as possible. It is the kind of social media marketing one shouldn’t miss out. Do Not Neglect Pinterest Pinterest is among the most famous social platform which ranks as the third most popular social medium. Also, it is considered as the second most substantial search engine after Google in terms of visual search. Furthermore, it has the capacity to maximize ROI, website traffic as well as credibility and authority in your niche. Thence, don’t neglect it. Tech giant Google disclosed Thursday that it will be dumping the sweet names of its mobile operating system, formerly called Android Q, and will simply be replaced by Android 10. Sameer Samat, vice president of product management for Android, wrote in a blog post. "As a global operating system, it's important that these names are clear and relatable for everyone in the world. So, this next release of Android will simply use the version number and be called Android 10." "We think this change helps make release names simpler and more intuitive for our global community." As part of this novel idea, Google is also updating its Android logo, opting for a "more modern, accessible look." It’s not yet clear when the new software will be available, but the new logo will be pushed out in the "coming weeks with the final release of Android 10." The company has had a tradition of naming its phones after something sweet, such as Pie, Oreo, Nougat, and Marshmallow. In March, the tech behemoth issued the first and showed more features at its yearly I/O developer conference in May. One of the company’s important selling points for Android 10 is a new tactic to keeping personal information isolated. The new confidentiality features come in the form of more coarse location controls and a devoted privacy section in the settings app. Android 10 will also support foldable screens, quicker app unveilings and full-on gesture navigation. A host of organizations have been working with Google through the beta process to ready their devices for the new update. As well as Google's line of Pixel phones, OnePlus (6 through 7 Pro), LG (G8) and Huawei (Mate 20 Pro) are among the many organizations with devices already certified for the 10 beta program. Video marketing has become a dependable medium for getting people's attention and getting your business message across for quite a while now. And as 2019 continues to unfold, more and more data is signaling its continued development and importance. About two-thirds of business owners are planning to create at least three marketing videos this year. Not surprisingly, almost all (87 percent) of those who have earlier invested in video marketing is happy with their ROI. In order to appeal to the new generation of customers, brands must actively look for creative notions to attract them or hire an expert digital marketing agency. In the face of mounting competition, how do you create your own identity in the ocean of competitors? It seems that the solution lies in video marketing. Let’s figure out how. How the marketers see the outcomes of the video Videos have become a tool that carries a variety of marketing and business goals i.e. customer retention, customer support, customer experience, sales, etc. Although for some brands it is very challenging to find the ROI of their videos however that’s also changing. Across the board, businesses use video to serve four main objectives: Optimize web traffic Score sales Educate users Offer support help We are going to discuss such successful video campaigns of real companies seeing results. Unlikely Friends - Google Android https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=q-NKpDTwMms&feature=youtu.be Google Android has introduced a new advertising campaign about unlikely animal relationships. Dogs and dolphins swimming, elephants and sheep playing, and even a duck and a kitten snuggling are among the cute displays. Since cute animals have always been a trend online, this makes it a great advertisement alone. But Good has more to offer. At the end of these simple, cute pairings, Google brings to mind us that we need to be together, but we don't need to be the same. This advertising campaign offers us a glimpse of how strong emotional marketing techniques can be if you add happiness to the mix! Besides happiness, there is a great deal of strength behind the human association and the promotion of unity in a globe that seems so divided. Like a Girl – Always https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XjJQBjWYDTs&feature=youtu.be ‘Like a Girl’ is an award-winning campaign which won Emmy, Cannes Grand Prix award, and the Grand Clio award. Always embarked on a mission to address the social issues that women face during puberty and took it up to appeal to younger audiences. This line implied that women were weaker, ditzy and unable to be powerfully independent. The primary aim of the video was for people to communicate and engage. Building on the concept of the word 'Like A Girl' as an offensive word, Always took on the challenge of changing people’s perceptions. The video comprises of engaging youth and sharing their opinions on what ' Like A Girl ' meant to them. By embracing a familiar sentence that we use every day, it has always been linked to the masses and has triggered a wave of social change. The Truth is Hard - The New York Times https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gY0Fdz350GE&feature=youtu.be People in the United States want and seek the truth as though it is being torn apart, polarized and deceived as never before. In such a time, the New York Times advertising campaign truly validating people's fears of the truth of the world and is still trying to calm them down. This advertisement reveals media of today as challenging it is to find honesty in their media. In a world where media is all bribe and sold for money, the New York Times used their advertisements to prove their commitment to transparency and honesty. This is a strong message for people who are tired of lies, negativity and want the truth. The Truth is Hard is offering a beautiful human link, which sincerely speaks to a globe that wishes clarity. Be Together More - Amazon Echo Amazon introduces its first-ever Echo Spot Device while pulling your and your family’s heartstrings showing how this technology can help connect families. In this ad, an old lonely grandma is shown. Her life was transformed by the insertion of the smart device into her home. Her gift is packed with the instructions “Just ask: ‘Alexa, Call Home.’” The home assistant does just that and the grandma is greeted by her full family on the screen. This message does not only promote their product but also helps us in self-reflecting our selves and our relationship with our grandparents and we might give them a call if it’s been a long time. Amazon not only inspires audiences but this demonstrates their willingness to target elderly individuals and help improve their lives, which also inspires us to be more faithful to the "good-doing" business. Apology – Facebook https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4zd7X98eOs Facebook has been through a bad phase with the violation of personal data leaks and privacy protection. A lot of time unfortunate things happen and companies apologize for that. So, Facebook thought of apologizing through an advertising campaign to send a strong message. They conveyed this message in the advertisement “committed to doing more to keep you safe and protect your privacy so that we can all get back to what made Facebook good in the first place: friends. Because when this place does what it was built for, we all get a little closer.” The audience does get offended if a brand makes mistakes but they get furious if they don’t see any apologies or encounter any improvement. It is the responsibility of a business to relieve the stress and worries of customers about using a product or service. Trust is essential, and with this video, Facebook shares its dedication and vision to how and what they want their platform to be. Safe, connected and human. Thank You Mom - P&G https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sUg6s-uIp1w&feature=youtu.be This video directs the audience through moms supporting their children with their dreams and circumstances — whether it's color prejudice, religion, disability or sexual orientation. Procter & Gamble's "Thank You Mom" has had a wonderful time being shuffled in the previous few Olympic publicity campaigns. This video encourages the sentiments and achievements of the Olympic athletes and the sacrifices of their support teams, including their mothers. This video encourages the sentiments and achievements of the Olympic athletes and the sacrifices of their support teams, including their mothers. Like a fair number of people who have had to sacrifice and pass through a lot of dreams, this tale resonates not only with the accomplished individual but also with the emotions of the support system. Moms, relatives, friends, and family can all be connected with the feeling of being supported and being the supporter. This ad campaign is a success since human love and sacrifice are two feelings that individuals can always relate to. You Are More Beautiful Than You Think – Dove https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XpaOjMXyJGk&feature=youtu.be This ad revolves around an artist who loves drawing portraits of women without seeing and completely through verbal descriptions by the women themselves or by someone else. With growing expectations of unachievable beauty criteria, Dove took a perceptive stance to tell women to be gentler to themselves. By contrasting how others perceive them as opposed to how people perceived themselves, they efficiently communicated the message. This famous campaign was run in 25 different languages and showcased in over 110 countries. The point to make here is Dove smartly tap on the striking trends and utilize a primary message that has the consumers at the heart of it. Search Engine Optimization (SEO) is something no start-up company can afford to ignore in 2019. But with Google's algorithm's ever-increasing complexity, and a million different professionals giving their view on what you need to do to rank higher, how can you determine what you really need to do? SEO is the answer. Let us start with knowing what SEO means? SEO stands for optimizing the search engine. And the term improving your SEO strategy includes activities performed to ensure that your website can be found on the results page of a search engine (SERP) when looking for content-related words or sentences on your website. Optimize Your Pages On-page optimization is more than just putting keywords on the page. You need to create adequately organized quality content using natural features for the targeted keywords. Use every sensible opportunity to add your targeted keywords to your website properly. Otherwise, you will end up missing out on important ranking signals One must optimize titles, meta descriptions and most importantly body content. Keep two points in consideration in your content: Put the Right Keyword Density Remember that, when writing the copy of your website it's important that not every other word is a keyword or keyword phrase. Google algorithms are searching for material appropriate to the keyword, not just the keyword presence itself. One way they do this is by judging the density of keywords. A decent minimum density is 1%, but generally, it is wise not to exceed 3%. Place Keywords Rightly in an Article You now have an account of un-competitive, natural-sounding keywords and the objective of placing in your written copy 1-4 of them per 100 phrases. It is essential to choose where to place them in that copy. Overall, you want a keyword in your article's title or blog post, at least one in the article's subtitle or bulleted list, and the rest are naturally spread across the article. Doing so will demonstrate the algorithms of the search engine that your material is extremely relevant to the keyword because it is not only the topic of your copy, but it is all referenced. Optimize your site for mobile phone Google's taking mobile optimization seriously has been well-documented for a long period of time. It is an increasingly important ranking factor with mobile-first indexing and mobile performance, and if you don't already take it seriously, then its time you did. Just look at the figures to know why: recent stats put mobile web traffic as high as 52.4 percent globally. That means that if your website isn't mobile-optimized (or simply less efficient than your desktop site) or you couldn't just create a big impression on visitors, you are likely to lose out on leads and revenues. The reality is that the majority of employees working on your website will do so via a desktop screen. This may lead them to focus solely on optimizing the desktop version of the pages You should encourage your team to frequently view and work through a smaller screen on your website to overcome this issue. This can really assist concentrate the mind on mobile's significance, and can even lead staff members to uncover problems or methods to enhance efficiency. This is what Google recommends for companies with both mobile and desktop applications: Your mobile and desktop site must have the same content in crawlable and indexable formats. This is applicable for videos, photos, and text Make sure that both variants of your website use structured data. Add in both variants the same meta descriptions and titles. A Business Listing is a must Google My Business listing is one of the simplest ways for small companies to boost their digital visibility. Through it all, business owners can regulate how their company is displayed on the search engine results pages of Google. Google My Business listings, on the other side, also assist search engines to discover precise business data. You can provide details such as contact data, place and company address on your Google My Business Page. You can also add suitable pictures to offer a glimpse of your products or office to your prospective clients. It also brings you an opportunity to write responses to your company ' commonly asked questions. To optimize your website for "near me" queries or voice-based searches, Google My Business listings are particularly helpful. Overriding your competitors in local search results is an important step. Many applications and services from third parties depend on Google to obtain business information. It will also be transmitted to these parties when you update your data on your Google My Business Page. Overall, it can effectively depict your data across various platforms. Small business owners can also gain insights into the behavior of their customers through these listings. You can find out how customers find you using Google Insights. It also demonstrates platforms where there is low visibility. You can customize your marketing campaigns based on this. Get rid of technical SEO issues From the outside, your small company website may look fine with excellent graphics, colors, and fonts. But if there are technical issues inside, your rankings and traffic are likely to suffer. Spend time fixing the foundation before embarking on a content or link campaign. You can also outsource the complete search engine optimization project to agencies for better results. You need a good website structure so your websites can be crawled and indexed properly by search engines. When we talk about SEO, some of the most common problems are Speed firstly, replicated content, un-optimized pages, and broken links. Social Media Linking is Advantageous Using social media to get your keywords out there is a wonderful way to keep content fresh. Daily post can do wonders. A brief, daily tweet or a Facebook post about your business is going to do great. Another great way to keep content fresh is to use social media to get your keywords out there. A short, daily tweet or a Facebook post related to your company will work wonders. Search engine algorithms are going to draw millions of social media users who might just come across your business account at any moment and see that you're just providing exactly what they're looking for. To get Google's attention, use the keyword in your article as a link to your blog would see that your site is connected to and from other Internet edges. Don’t forget to use images Using photos is one of the finest ways to maintain a client's attention and break up the text walls that threaten so many websites. The images must, of course, be important to the topic, and the picture URL and caption are a good location to fit in another keyword. Because if a client looks for a keyword instead of an image, you will have an extra opportunity to attract them. The first impression of anything leaves a strong mark on the customer’s mind and you never get a second chance to change the first. The first impression of any business is based exclusively on their website. So, redesigning your website should be in your consideration. Web designing shouldn’t be taken lightly, it takes a lot of efforts, thought, time and money ultimately. But one thing to be very clear on is that you don’t necessarily need to change every element of graphic and branding design elements. So, we are going to guide you on why and what elements need redesigning on your website. As your website is of utmost importance to create an impression of your business. Here are some reasons why you should redesign your business website. Your website isn’t responsive Mobile internet usage has definitely taken over the market while desktop seems like an old tale now. So, if your site doesn’t work well on the smartphones then you are alienating hundreds of users. When people open a website, they have a lot of expectations. They want to move from one page to another in just a touch, find the information they are seeking for instantly, they look for the short videos they need information on and don’t wish to download bundles of information. They probably won’t wait to go home and open desktop to access your website. So, a responsive website has become a necessity these days. More control on updating your website Fresh content and updated website are the key elements in making your website successful. When you redesign your website, you have the access to use an easy to use CMS that provides to make prompt updates you need for your site. With greater power over marketing content updates means you can post marketing content and campaigns rapidly where you don’t need to wait for tech support. Outdated Design There is no global rule on how frequently you should go for a redesign but a good rule of thumb is that at least 2-3 years. If it has been longer than that you should go for a refresh now. According to research, you only get a few seconds to obtain the attention of the visitors. So, in order to obtain their attention, your site design should be latest having a clean layout with a modern look which caters both mobile as well as desktop interfaces. Not SEO Friendly This reason alone is enough to redesign your website. Search engine algorithms have changed. So, if you think your website ranking has come down, it’s a signal that your site needs an update. Various old sites were built without keeping SEO in mind. This will bring an opportunity to rebuild your marketing strategy as well as creating quality content. So, you must make sure that you are being found on search engines. Poor User Experience Analytics should be on the core of your web design strategy. You should know how many people are visiting your website, where they are from and how long do they stay and where they are going when they leave your page. By knowing these analytics, will help you know what your users look for, what becomes a hindrance and what you should come up with in order to gain the traffic. You should consider user-experience and redesign your site. A site which is easy to use will keep on bringing the users back. Performance Issues Visitors are highly annoyed by the poor performance of your website. Poor load times, broken functionalities will drive away the visitors. In today's era, users expect quick responses and results. Slow responding websites are most likely to lose visitors. They feel agitated in visiting the site if the site takes time and bring forward disturbances while they are trying to accomplish what they have come for. Since fixing has always been a complicated process so instead you should build something new. And go with the redesigning of your website. Change in Brand’s Message Make sure that your website reflects the current status of your business. Your website is your most important business asset. Businesses often change their goals with time and in case you have, you should take an overall look of your website, and if the outlook of your website doesn’t align with your brand’s message, its high time that you should go for website design services. Use of an outdated technology The technology you use is utmost important. If your site still uses Flash then it’s a high time you should redesign because not only iPhone and iPad but even Google cannot read it, which makes the SEO, a nightmare. Not only does it destroy SEO but also user experience. So, you should opt for a redesign to update your site with the latest technology and plugins in order to make it more efficient and creating a good experience for users. Convert More Leads It is not always about the appearance of your website that converts prospects into leads. Consider revisiting your CTAs, landing pages or conversions routes, in general, to see what is lacking. Check if your landing pages are simpler or complex. The language used in your CTAs is ambiguous, or people just can't locate it if they want it. Either way, you should attempt to make the needed modifications to get customers deeper into the sales funnel. Third-Party Tools Upgrade Remember that third-party tools integrated on your website need to get updated. They should meet the modern standards because if they don’t users will face difficulties and eventually will turn down the website. It is also assumed in many cases that it is the reason behind less or slow conversions. Figure out if the tools are working well and responding rightly; if newer versions are available to update them immediately. And in case if you find out that the tool is outdated and ineffective, it might be safe to remove them. The world of web development is constantly evolving. All thanks to open-source and innovation, as soon as you learn one technology, a new one comes along. Because of its constantly evolving nature, it becomes quite challenging to stay up-to-date in the industry. Thankfully, web development blogs make it easy for anyone to stay up-to-date with the trending topics of today. We've gathered some of the finest web design and development blogs for you. Whether it's learning a fresh UX design application or finding someone to demonstrate the current trends, the internet is full of data on these and many other topics. Let’s take a look at the best 20 web development blogs in 2025. 1. SitePoint SitePoint is a web-based online community of professionals. It is a learning center for programmers, product creators, developers, designers, entrepreneurs managed by top web professionals. You can learn about web design & development with SitePoint tutorials, courses, and books — HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, PHP, Mobile App Development, Responsive Web Design. 2. Scotch It is a web development blog that addresses everything about programming, development, web, as well as life. You can explore a huge variety of online courses, webinars, and tutorials. Also, you can take part in community coding challenges. It incorporates all kinds of the web- material for internet geeks. 3. CSS-Tricks CSS- Trick provides tips, tricks, and techniques of using Cascading Style Sheets. It covers articles on JavaScript, jQuery, Sass, WordPress and a lot more. Besides having education blogs, they also provide videos, code snippets, a job board which are the requirements of web persons. Chris Coyier and a team of swell people create, write and maintain CSS-Tricks*. 4. Smashing Magazine Since 2006, Smashing Magazine has been there and their blog's depth and breadth reflects it. You can discover high-quality content on more than 30 topics revolving around web design and development. For instance, HTML & CSS, UX &UI, Typography, Web Design and RWD, and more. Explore a collection of PDF, ePUB and Amazon Kindle in printed and eBooks. This is a phenomenal resource for developers who want to go deeper. 5. Codrops You'll discover a lot of helpful tutorials and code snippets on Codrops if you're a front-end developer or web designer. In addition, Codrops also addresses more general web design topics and how a web designer's role has developed over the years. It has the latest web trends and approaches, tutorials, articles, plugins as well as a handy CSS reference with all the important properties. 6. Design Shack It was initiated as a design blog and soon it joined all the top development blogs. You will also discover articles on accessibility, graphics, and layouts in addition to inspirational web design graphics. The Blog also addresses a wide range of topics, including UX design, CSS, and freelancing. For anyone working in the field of web design, it is simply a go-to. If you're a web designer in quest of an excellent blog design, this is the best spot for you. 7. A List Apart It is among the oldest website development blogs. It was initiated as a mailing list back in 1997 but a year later, it shifted towards the blog and ever since it is there. Even though it looks vintage, the architecture of information is 100% contemporary. The site has a minimalist UI despite all the years of content and is extremely easy to navigate. You can find content, design and user experience articles, as well as free-to-use code samples. 8. Webdesigner Depot This platform has gone through many breakthroughs in the web design and web development business. It provides a huge range of topics. Also, you get to learn about design, user experience, accessibility, design, freelancing, etc. Because it has grown rapidly to become one of the most famous design blogs on the web, you can discover almost anything all kinds of excellent, in-depth articles and tutorials. 9. SpeckyBoy It is one of the online magazines which cover 18 web design and web development topics. Topics of articles include information architecture, design inspiration, freelancing, photography, and icons. They have hired a number of writers which benefits you with a number of the different point of views. SpeckyBoy also features tools for web design for those who really need resources. 10. Code Condo Code Condo provides straightforward development blog features tutorials and tips on a variety of web design topics. The writers of Code Condo research and provide all the trending topics you have been looking for. If you can't locate the information you need, you can click a link to web development courses on their freebies page. 11. Tuts+ Code This is the right platform if you are looking for ‘How to’ tutorials. It offers 1220+ courses as well as more than 170 eBooks on coding, design and illustration, motion/graphic, game development, photos & videos, etc. 12. Creative Bloq Creative Bloq is a platform for articles on HTML & CSS, branding, fonts, animation, 3D modeling, JavaScript, RWD, UX and more. It is said to be a daily mix of advice and inspiration. 13. DavidWalsh With JavaScript and JavaScript frameworks like React.js and jQuery, David Walsh Blog features in-depth articles as well as brief and crisp coding tips. His blog teaches concepts to aspiring web developers through demos and examples. 14. Web Design Ledger Web Design Ledger article is written by web designers for web designers. The goal of Web Design Ledger is to share expertise and resources linked to web design. Topics on this platform range from design templates and themes, to interviews with designers and developers. The blog also covers articles on content management systems (WordPress & Drupal) and development topics like PHP, jQuery, Javascript, NodeJS, etc. 15. Tutorialzine Tutorialzine publishes web design and development tutorials on a regular basis along with compilations of the latest as well as famous JavaScript frameworks and CSS libraries. 16. Coding Horror Coding Horror is the source of information of the experienced web application developer Jeff Atwood. The blog addresses all kinds of software development and security issues, but it is Jeff's interest in the human development element that makes the blog stand out. 17. Onextrapixel Onextrapixel is a platform to share useful tips, news, and resources, on design, development, tutorials, tools and other inspirational topics. 18. Designmodo Apart from providing a long list of blogs on web design, it is also an online shop for web design resources, tools, and UI Kits and icon packs. 19. CSS Author CSS Author is the blog you should be following if you want to generate an interesting and catchy website. This platform provides free templates, design inspirations, resources on coding languages as well as free WordPress themes. 20. Hongkiat Hongkiat is there to offer you the most inspirational content and all content stuff related to design and technology. You can find tutorials, tips, tricks, techniques, tool recommendations and plenty of freebies. It is the best match for web developers, web designers, bloggers, entrepreneurs, and graphic designers. Instagram is used by over 25 million companies across the world are taking advantage of Instagram for Business. There are thousands of brands and a number of high-profile B2B organizations that use Instagram to raise brand awareness, engage their audiences and eventually attract new customers. Instagram can help in increasing leads clicking on landing pages, reduce the cost of lead generation, and allow your company to target a niche market. With 800+ million monthly users, Instagram is ruling the social media. So, what is Instagram? What does it do? Instagram is a social networking app designed to share pictures and videos from a mobile phone. Everyone who creates an Instagram account has a profile and a news feed. When you post a photo or video, it will become visible on your profile, and those who follow you will see the post in their own feed. which implies you're also going to see the messages from the people you decide to follow. Instagram B2B Marketing Strategies Every social media platform offers different strategies. Thankfully, there are a bunch of great B2B Instagram strategies. Here are some of the best ones. Get involved with your audiences in interactive ways Postings aren’t enough. You need to get involved with your audiences in conversations. Not just post pictures and videos, give an appropriate reply to your community when they leave a response. Take the time to check out other Instagram profiles, pages, have a browsing experience, like some content, and you may also leave friendly comments here and there. Try to engage with the audience so they try to engage with you on your social medium. Be swanky about your products Rather than creating an image that showcases your brand’s finest work. Upload colorful and catchy images of your products with a caption that gives all the amazing details about it. The nature of the picture will differ depending on your business genre. For instance, if you are in the fashion domain, if you’re in the fashion space, you can post photos of models/individual wearing your products. Use your customer’s testimony through visuals It is a great way to brag about your brand in disguise. Post pictures and comments of your bona fide customers and put their words in caption depicting how satisfied they are with your product or services. You may also upload a video where they can tell how beneficial your product or service has been for them or how your business has helped them in transforming their lives. There’s no better medium like Instagram that excitingly shows the perks of working in a particular company. It is essential to remember that "customers" can mean "employees." This approach is sometimes referred to as "employee advocacy," but whatever name you use for it, just remember that your employees have meaningful content to share —and can highlight your company culture in the process. Hashtags win the overall scenario If you let your audience participate, you don't necessarily ask them for anything, i.e. visuals and a story. Rather, you usually convey a shared core value through a hashtag. Hashtags make your Instagram content discoverable. Followers get to engage in hashtags, plain and simple. That's why so many companies are promoting their own branded hashtags to encourage interaction with their customers. PayPal users are using the #PayPalIt hashtag on Instagram, and this has been applied to over 8,000 posts. While Paypal sets the narrative, consumers push the narrative along with their participation in Instagram with the brand. Uploading a story gets you heard In the world of Instagram, businesses that tell the most interesting stories are setting up the largest audience. If you want to attract individuals to your company and get them to participate with you, you need coherent visual storytelling that cuts through all of Instagram's noise. Don't restrict your focus to your overall picture and video feeds. The Instagram Stories function allows you to develop a slideshow or a picture or video montage. When you're tied together, tell a tale and give your audience a more personal experience. Give your customers free tips Giving useful tips to the customers will make you the apple of the eye. Moreover, it will convince them to think that you are an expert in your industry. You probably might have already given some kind of advice in your content marketing. But this time do it prominently with an Instagram post. Use images with short, pithy pointers. Then, elaborate on those pointers in the caption. Post tips with corresponding comments and responses that make it clear that you understand what you have posted. Analyze which content works best for your business Perform a little analysis of your post. See which posts get the most engagement and likes. Do a day-to-day, post-by-post analysis and you will get to know which one is resonating the most. You may also make use of some tool that provides you the whole analytics in one place. When you get to see everything in one place in different time frames you analyze what is working for you and what is not. Once you are done analyzing, put your focus on the type of content that works best for your business. How to get the best of Instagram B2B strategy? Show your business successes and value via postings. Put the most creative, catchy and interactive content Post Instagram stories regularly Show the inside of the business in a positive light Put an ad budget for promoted content Run Instagram advertisements for all those who visit the website. Upload and target your customer list via Instagram Advertisements Create look-a-like audiences and target them through ads Run content ads put them down into the funnel and finally run straight conversion ads Summing up Instagram is a potential marketing tool for B2B businesses. But to make the most of it one needs to develop an effective content strategy centered around thoughtful visuals. That being said, with every social platform, it is important to be prepared with the knowledge and tools needed to create ROI through social media. Business Intelligence (BI) tools help you in deriving insights from your internal data that helps businesses in making tactical and strategic decisions. It is often used interchangeably with business analytics or data analytics. BI is the discipline of recognizing company requirements and finding alternatives to various business issues. In simpler words, it is a set of functions and techniques that work as a link between stakeholders. They help them recognize the structure, policies, and operations of the organization. They can also recommend alternatives to assist the business in achieving its objectives. Business Intelligence analysis is applicable to the following areas: Provides analysis of customer behaviors, buying patterns and sales trends Improves overall process and operational performance Tracks, measures and predicts sales and financial performance Budgeting, financial planning and estimating Tracking the performance of marketing campaigns Greatly improves delivery and supply chain. Offers web, social media and e-commerce analytics Effective customer relationship management Risk analysis Top 10 BI Tools Your Startup Company Needs Various IT companies are providing customized business intelligence solutions. Here is a list of Top 10 Business Intelligence Tools You Need for Your Startup Company: 1. Dundas Dundas is an intuitive drag and drop functionality. It has been there in the market for around 25 years already. Dundas can help you in transforming data into visually appealing and understandable reports that can be substantially customized. With the analysis of these reports, you can draw the right conclusions without the need of an analytical team. It also offers a 45-day free trial. Moreover, it has flexibility in pricing which enables it to fit the needs of different users. 2. DBxtra In case if you are a non-technical person, DBxtra can help you in generating the type of insights traditionally reserved for coders. It can help you integrate with all types of databases without having a deep knowledge of SQL. Once you get all the data, you can put them into charts, tables or even in a presentation. With one of its main features, it can generate reports. Apart from this, you can create interactive dashboards, pull data right into Excel, or auto-generate and distribute reports. DBxtra also offers 30 days free trial so that you can try before you make a purchase. 3. Sisense This is another tool for non-techy individuals. Sisense is quite user-friendly through which anyone in your team can manage huge and complex number of datasets. Moreover, they can also visualize and analyze them without the interference of your IT department. Not to forget, it gathers data from a number of sources including Adwords, Google Analytics and Salesforce. It also incorporates in-chip technology which makes data processing quick as compared to others. 4. Zoho Reports Zoho‘s business intelligence is considered as the best solution for larger businesses and data sets as compared to all others mentioned here. It is able to incorporate information from a wide variety of sources and transform it into a visually attractive and easy-to-understand report for marketing, sales, and other departments. Zoho also offers a 15-days free trial after which you can go for a subscription plan which suits your business requirements and is friendly to your pockets. 5. Systum It is a business intelligence tool that allows organizations to streamline and improve procedures across numerous B2B and B2C channels in order to increase productivity and effectiveness. It involves a multitude of marketing features, built-in CRM, Inventory Management, B2B and much more. Systum also provides a wide spectrum of integration options, including Amazon, eBay, and QuickBooks. 6. Prisync With user-friendly dashboards and strong reports, e-commerce operators have a diverse understanding of the pricing of their competitors and the product assortments they place on the market. Whether it’s SMBs or Fortune 500, they all are dependent on Prisync’s data to get detailed C-level analysis and execute their A-game to upsurge sales growth and ROI. With the 24/7 customer support team to respond to your queries by making sure you get more than what you have paid for. Prisync offers free onboard service to plan a long-term partnership with all of its clients. It sends notifications and thorough Excel sheets from the market on a regular basis, whether daily or instant, to keep you updated and well within the game. 7. IBM Cognos Intelligence IBM Cognos Intelligence is a cloud-based business intelligence and analytics tool that can help you in visualizing, analyzing and sharing insights about your business. A number of factors hinder the process of analyzing your business data to comprehend performance and recommend improvements including data storage, various platforms and undue reliance on spreadsheets. It offers a set of tools for reporting, analytics, score carding and tracking of incidences and metrics. This software comprises of several components intended to satisfy the divergent data requirements of a business. IBM Cognos Intelligence can help you explore information from different angles and perspectives and compare it with data in motion and trends for a more extensive view of your business. The facts you need for better results are right at your fingertips. 8. Microsoft BI platform Microsoft Power offers non-technical business users with tools for information aggregation, analysis, visualization, and sharing. BI's user interface is relatively intuitive for customers who are accustomed with Excel, and its extensive integration with other Microsoft products makes it a very flexible self-service tool that needs little upfront training. It includes analysis services, integration services, master data services, reporting services, and several client applications used for making or working with analytical data. Analysis Services and Reporting Services can be installed as stand-alone servers, in scale-out settings, or as shared service apps in a SharePoint farm. A free version of Power BI is designed for SMB owners; a professional version called Power BI Plus is accessible for a monthly subscription fee. 9. Pentaho It is yet another commonly used tool with both open source and a paid version. Pentaho offers helpful basics including data visualization tools like geo-mapping or heat graphs. Also, it provides reporting in a variety of output forms such as PDFs, Excel, and HTML. Apart from that, CT tools are included which gives you the capacity to create custom dashboards on top of Pentaho. As a result, you get impressive amount of control over the program, letting you create more advanced dashboards or incorporate extra visual aids for reports. On the other hand, the software is free, and if your needs are basic or you just want to try something out, the Pentaho community version may be for you. 10. Cluvio Cluvio lets you run SQL queries against your database, process data in R, visualize and create interactive dashboards in no time. This platform is set up for the needs of startups and data-driven teams. With easy to understand dashboards, you can add customized time-base and filters, get charts, write SQL and share your dashboards with your team and even with your customers. Additionally, it provides automatic recommendations and alerts to facilitate your work. Cluvio also enables powerful embedding that allows you to readily add analytical features to any website or web application. It has a free subscription to begin with and comparative cheap subscription packages. A commercial business becomes easy when you handle it well in all aspects. You got to handle several things and manage them properly. First of all, you should stand to your decisions and try to make things easier the customers throughout the shopping process. You should think it in wide perspective to provide an ideal ecommerce business platform for your customers in different aspects. The companies should provide necessary services what an ecommerce businesses are being expected to offer to their customers. You have to provide easy and trusted services to attract the online visitors to make them your potential customers. You got to serve them a dedicated platform to increase your customers. But, not to lose them by any fatal mistakes. You got to set some goals, identify obstructions and potential drawbacks to provide a smooth purchasing for the customers at every step. The three most serious mistakes which can result in slim chances of customers’ retention are mentioned below: Avoid Testing Your Website Design Your ecommerce website designing may become one of the main and most important fatal mistakes. Your website is the first and central part of your business that represents your online presence. So, you should really be careful about designing your ecommerce website from a professional web design and development agency. Many businessmen do not understand this major fact and their slight mistake can convert their businesses from benefits to loss. So, get it designed as a user-friendly and purely responsive website so that people can visit through all devices easily. The visitors can easily use it on their handsets and control their purchasing efficiently. Before making it live, you should test all the flaws if there exists and remove them. Such flaws may include the design, web content, and infographics on your website, and product categories etc. which are the major things that customers observe. The loading time also counts, so make sure the site loads well in time so that visitors return again due to exercising your website’s loading speed. Inefficient Shipping Process You should also be careful about your shipping process and your moves should go in the right direction especially your active shipment process. Because inefficient shipping methods will not work to run a product-based ecommerce business. So, you should manage the shipping process before you get assistance from ecommerce development solutions. Also, make sure you are using the right logistics for managing your products to ship to your customers without any delays. Avoid mistakes in packaging processes as inefficiency of packaging, or late deliveries in shipment can ruin your entire efforts. All above mentioned inconveniences can create a costly burden to you and to your customers. These may lead you to losing your potential customers and won’t be able to retain them back again. To Create an Account Customers avoid shopping from such online shopping portals where account creation is necessary before purchasing any product. That’s why most of the customers leave and never return to such ecommerce sites. Because they have no time to create an account simply for single time purchase or buying something is urgent. In fact, about twenty-three percent of customers said in a survey that they would leave their shopping cart if it is compulsory to create an account on any platform. It’s useless and time wasting to fill account creation form and providing additional personal data to the website for simply buying a single product or in urgent. Therefore, business owners should not compel their customers to create an account or becoming a member. The customers can easily shop their required products and let them go happily. If they are being entertained well and leave successfully, they will certainly return again with positive experience. Otherwise, you might have the chances of losing your customer’s retention if you force them to create an account. So, make sure you got a guest checkout option available for such potential customers in your website and they leave after shopping with a positive experience. Hopefully, the guest checkout option will provide clear chances that the customers will return and after some time, they will create their accounts on their own. But, you must never ever force them to create an account or signup for membership. Since, eCommerce businesses are availing fruitful benefits by using the services of Affiliate marketing. It seems one of the greatest ways to boost up your online sales and revenue. Reputable businesses set along with new commencing e-Stores are getting productive benefits. Also, they will get a huge advantage from the empowerment of affiliate marketing. This sort of marketing model provides no risk for the marketers in any way. They commonly pay for the services after acquiring genuine sales. Ultimate Benefits of Affiliate Marketing Affiliate Marketing recognizes as a tactic module designed for precise marketing. New businesses should get the assistance of a reliable website development agency who can design them a website to support affiliate. So, affiliate marketers create dynamics in their profession and utilize their skills. They have made it quite clear that the results have revealed their performances. Widening Functioning Grounds Affiliate assists for widening the operation grounds to market the services in the best possible means. It is providing something not only about your customers, but to rely on statistical data and suggestions. Therefore, it is providing a profitable extent in which the investment is not used on what sort of services you acquire. The brands create an individualized in the market to fascinate different customers. It does not serve an easy way to get the marketers, but you need perfect ways to boost up your eCommerce business. 1. Discover Specific Niche The initial phase needs to find an appropriate affiliate that suits the best for ecommerce business. Yet, you may get millions of online websites where you can simply search for the assistance. It will provide built-in search engine that will lead you to an appropriate niche affiliate. The renowned affiliates are serving likely Share-a-Sale, Commission Junction, AffiliatePrograms.com, and LinkShare etc. So, if you do not belong to any of the affiliate groups. You ought to search out for the niche business creativity that provides to a same customer as you. It becomes necessary to make sure that it is ideally proven. Hence, it stretches out for using with e-mail promotions. 2. Using Appropriate Banners The affiliates can get the best assistance to use banners of various sizes. You should get your website designed from any professional ecommerce website design agency. They will provide a complete solution to provide many banners for choosing the most suitable ones. So, your affiliate should have complete rights to promote your services without any delays. Therefore, you can provide appropriate sized banners to use on social media campaign. You must provide a social media copy together with an e-newsletter to ensure advertising is hassle free. First of all, you should keep in touch with your affiliates and also encourage them. You got to make sure to supply all the necessities to them. Thus, you can think it quite essential to provide the details of your new products. In addition, they can assist you in generating your eCommerce business successfully. 3. Affiliate Tracking Will Do The Best Probable, these two ways manage a specific system of affiliate tracking which are either to join the prominent network or affiliate marketers. It exists on a sole platform mentioned as Affiliate Network or managed by own tracking system. Moreover, you can even search for a precise niche marketer who are capable to assist you. They can optimize your marketing purposes with a proper affiliate tracking system. However, they provide the auto feature for tracking the amount of sales created for the affiliates. You will find it calm to allot the commission off sales with no arguments. 4. Using Modern Commission Structure Affiliate Marketing tactics demonstrate its ideal assistance in the case of distinct events. You wish to initiate more traffic to your website at the end of any Sal or festive season. So, you can supersede the current percent of commission and put on additional demand to the affiliates. You can put on these extraordinary commission degrees to sole affiliates or affiliates with an exact tradition tag. 5. Affiliate Marketing Support Affiliate Marketing will provide you the best support. You will find clear rules available as Terms and conditions for making the most of affiliates to stick together. Thus, it mentions clear terms and conditions that will surely support you. You will get out of distresses of any sort with affirmative results. Final Words Finally, the coupons play a vital role to use them in concluding the buying process. The traffic brought to the website through affiliates aspects for inducements to make purchases. Affiliates make sure to initiate conversions with the best results with an appealing coupon added. It suggests to practice coupon discount codes on different search engines. Thus, customers can search easily for coupons and deals. The advancement of e-Commerce hacks is all about to get the advantage. It works for elimination to achieve the maximum traffic, revenue or even signups. Scaling and structuring have not been that much so simpler. One can struggle for few hours on a specific campaign. This can carry out on daily, weekly or monthly basis unless any action of interfering. Given below presents seven Boosting hacks for e-Commerce ROI (Return on Investment): Creating of Striking Content Content plays a prominent part in attracting visitors and the best way to market brands or claims. It surely has a solid base in creating the impression of the product to describe it as per needs of customers. Seventy percent of consumers desire to get to know a company through described content rather than an ad. It is also very significant to note that one has few seconds to get customer’s attraction before they move on. So, the striking content needs to be easy and impressive to engage the audiences. Contact here for Digital Marketing Assistance Use of Effective Images Images also perform is effective support in attracting the customers and increasing sales and revenue of the company. Images help grow business goals and achievements effectively and support in selling the specific product to the right customer. It is really significant to use images that represent the product features and will create the entire focus on the needs of customers. Email Campaigns Using the strategy of emailing to the targeted customers is also one of the successful marketing skills. So, it creates a positive sense to use the support of email campaign as one of the excellent e-Commerce growth hacks. An email that includes complete product details is a great way to let the customers know about the new information that will follow them to think about their needs. Use of Effective Video Marketing Boosting any business by using the video marketing skills is also one of the fastest means of flourishing the business. It is one of the attractive and striking means of advertising company products. A minute of video can easily represent the intention of a product well to the customers. Today, using the video market is the ideal way to use this growth hack to increase business revenue or ROI. Setting Return and Refund Policy People are really concerned about Return and Refund when they shop products online. So, to overcome this major concern from the customers; set a prominent policy by highlighting the returns and refunds to attract the customers to clear any ambiguity that exists in their minds. This policy can also provide the best opportunity to convert more and more customers as returning and refunding will generate positive thinking and will eliminate the option of ambiguity. Generating Social Proof For boosting ROI of any e-Commerce business, social proof generates reliability and impression on customers. It implies that specific online store is trusted by a large community and influencers, and it’s not just overvalued up by clever descriptions. Social proof is also thought to be useful for tapping into customer psychology because the customers get a cue when they see the experiences of other people. Social proof can be in different forms like online reviews, ratings, and number of people bought such products etc. Re-marketing Re-marketing is the fundamental approach as positive hacks to boost return on investment (ROI). It is generally the process of pursuing website visitors and then aiming them with proper content after they leave. This goal is simply to re-engage the customers and a try to bring them back to shop again. Re-marketing provides the best opportunity to transform bounced visitors, improve ROI budgets, increase brand awareness, increase visitors and site engagement. Today, mobiles incorporate in our lives immensely and we use them for quite many reasons. Every professional, commercial and non-commercial websites are developed as mobile-friendly. People can easily visit such websites through their mobile phones and perform their tasks easily. So, you can design your mobile-friendly website from any professional web design company out there in your location. Concept of Mobile Friendly Website Initially, the concept introduced for mobile friendly website was after the announcement of new algorithm of Google. It says, the non mobile friendly websites will negatively affect in ranking on Google and the website search on mobile devices will get more effect. Thus, the mobile ecommerce website developers got quick progress and started developing their websites with mobile interface. The entire global businesses switched their business websites on to the mobile versions gradually. Ideal e-Commerce Websites You will find some seven mobile friendly ecommerce websites. So, all such websites got tested on different smartphones, mobile phones and tablets etc. The websites got designed to provide excellent navigation system, running on the mobile device friendliness. AMAZON Amazon presents as one of the world’s famous e-commerce companies. It provides its website with ideal navigation and mobile friendliness, but it may not provide the attractive visual design. Still, it demonstrates that even huge retailers can make up for deficiency of design scheme with its usability. You will find the search bar which is the option to search by department. Precisely, it gets narrow down the search for more categories and also supports for simple browsing that can improve engagement. Thus, it will serve in retaining people on the site for longer duration. NIKE Nike provides a popular shoe retailer brand that has fabulous product images on the site. As, it combines with a short copy to entice in users. The simple web design attracts the focus on the shoe products. It inspires commitment by customers to click and scroll through bigger product images. Therefore, you will find three central icons at the top along with a search bar. Moreover, it serves shopping cart, and key drop-down menu for category items. EXPRESS Express becomes an ideal fashion clothing store for young men and women. It knows that most the visitors come to their site as it is mobile friendly. So, the website provides large, enriching images of cloth items along with short descriptions and price tags below. Also, it serves as a perfect mobile-friendly for the users who can slide their finger from left to right on any clothing image. The actual image changes to give you different views of the clothes. ETSY Etsy presents an ideal e-commerce store where homemade or vintage items are available for sale and purchase. It means, a mobile friendly site organizes attractively altogether smartphones and tablets. Therefore, you will observe a prominent search bar and a button to access their App. They have executed a widespread grid layout with product images to make sure the clean and simple to use. LUSH LUSH permits you to buy handmade cosmetics products from their store. It presents the content in an attractive way with clean grid layout with big product images. Therefore, you have noticed a buy button under each product. You can add your required product to your shopping cart with a click. You can enjoy the most distinguished features of this site as it presents an ideal search bar. Consequently, it means quite supportive of smaller size mobile devices missing the real keyboards. MYDEAL AUSTRALIA My Deal Australia provides you one of the international online retailers' website from Australia. It sells almost everything from electronics to house-ware products. Almost, you got all high quality product images are set with large font size. Thus, it enables you to view them easily on all devices. The checkout system serves quite easy and simple on all devices. Moreover, you can view the shipping charges throughout the whole checkout process. THREADLESS Threadless makes you shop online graphic tee store. It serves people to design their t-shirts. The entire t-shirt designs are serving crowd-sourced people through voting. Therefore, you will find three important buttons at the top of the website which includes shopping, participate and create. So, it makes a clear view for Threadless to instantly serve the users do select from the option and the t-shirt category shows in a grid design layout. Once the users click on any one, you can scroll through different designs without moving to a new page. Gaining Effective Traffic Moreover, this concept gained effective traffic on their websites as most mobile users visited the websites from their mobile devices. As, you will notice the difference when any user visit any mobile friendly website. Because, it is formatting accurately and easy to navigate its entire web pages effectively and to gain popularity in Google search and ranking. E-commerce has provided vast benefits to the customers. They can fulfill their essential requirements according to their needs and without any hindrances. In this regards, they have several ways to make the e-commerce checkout process excellent. It can provide more attractive and easy ways to the customers while shopping online. Unrealistic Checkout System You will find specific rules for improving the checkout process. This way, everyone can find it excellent and comfortable for all. People become perhaps the victim of an unfeasible or just impracticable checkout system of the ecommerce business. It is really annoying to complete a proper purchase through the online store. The most websites get constructed with the purpose of transforming the visitors into potential customers. But, that won’t work if there is a poor checkout format available for the users. Potential customers always look for rapid and adequate online practices and you need to ensure everything happens according to their demands. Concept of Excellent Checkout Process You should never let flee your visitors from your website. They can actually become your potential customers in the future. You should care and provide the necessary evaluation to make an easy checkout process or design. But, it makes sure the processing is practically supportive for the customers. An important question arises why do visitors leave their shopping cart so frequent. You should know what flaws make visitors leave and avoid forever. You should try to introduce the ideal checkouts. We are trying to list down some type of a common but perfect ways that would surely improve. It will create an excellent perception of the best checkout process. Here are, some excellent ways or suggestions described below for the proper checkout process. It will contribute to making it easy, beneficial and attractive for all. These key features will surely provide a better path to practice good checkout system for ecommerce businesses. Immediate & Fast: The process should make fast move and work on rapid payment system. This will go on without pauses and buying process will immediately confirm your success. If the system is delaying or slowing the loading process, it may create a bad impression on the customers. This can make sure they quit and never to visit again on your online store in the future. Easy Registration Process: Such online store should also practice the easy registration process which will encourage the customers to register easily. You will certainly avoid losing your potential sales from your end with the easy registration practices. Security Encouragement: Customers become confused and they also have doubts against only security issues. So, your online store should make sure your customers for satisfying security checkups. You should encourage them and build a confirmed trust mark forever. Easy & Precise Form: Most of the customers find it hectic to fill long and confusing online form. So, you should make it simple and precise as possible to avoid asking for too much or irrelevant data from them. It will make sure your form is error-free while submitting the form. Processing Indicator: Even, you should introduce a proper processing indicator for your customers. They will clearly know where they stand at a specific moment during their shopping. They will know what the steps remain to complete the buying process. So, this process will provide an indicator bar to let them know exactly about the processing time left in their shopping. Determined Summary: You should also set a reminder or to provide a determined summary to the users by filling items in their baskets. Of course, this would make them precise of the total cost and about the order at any time. Eliminate Disturbances: Also, a proper enclosed checkout system will make sure that the online shoppers will highly focus on their shopping. It will probably eliminate any sort of disturbance that can cause during checkouts. Conclusion The above checkout process will surely prove excellent features for the customers. You will not lose any of your visitors who are certain to become your potential customers. Franchise marketing considered very ideal for overcoming obstacles faced in digital marketing. It works along with rapid success to boost up your online marketing presence for your customers. It certainly provides a perfect way to give a boosting start to your marketing plan for achieving success. Franchise Marketing Franchise marketing, discusses to apply a specific strategy on branded online marketing. It works the best for individual franchise location underneath a comprehensive business strategy. Usually, franchise marketing comprises of certain platforms like print advertisement, tv advertisement, radio advertisement, direct mailing, and PR. In our current digital era, it prolongs to the online realm, where the topmost competitors' website have been search engine optimized. Along with that, you will also find local search engine marketing, pay per click, social media, and video supporting as franchise marketing. For instance, a franchisee, customer relies on the business website to create local inquiries. This lets you to increase the online presence and grab more local inquiries. Marketing Channels For Franchises Initially, it does not matter whether you appear as a franchisee or franchiser. But, you got to recognize your actual digital marketing platform. Here, you will find the top channels available for digital marketing such as search engine marketing, content, business website, social media, including video, pay per click advertising, and email marketing. For SEO or SEM Search engine optimization serves quite a vital role for franchises. But, it does not matter if you appear as franchisee or franchisor when people search for your specific service on any major search engines. As the main aim of SEO; to provide you as much high results page as possible in search engines. At this, they require four things to rank fine organically for your entire franchise locations. You will also require the bulk of the unique, appropriate, and outstanding content. Even, your content must offer a value to your audiences and reply the questions by their search requests. Your entire web presence should create your company as an ideal authority in your specific industry. Even, you must make it domestically significant to the online searchers, with markup and content to keep targeted searches. For Social Media Social media plays a sort of extraordinary power role for franchises because it's a channel which can be well controlled. There comes a certain tip for franchises to create a social media strategy manual that assists franchises to obvious directions on for branding, messaging, and how to avail success. It allows significant work and allow the Facebook page locations feature. Suppose, you got the main brand page and it doesn’t have any specific address and intends to be the only page at the commercial level. Each location page maintains according to the franchisee and can be retrieved by corporate level. For Pay Per Click Pay-per-click advertising play great role and also measure as one of the ideal ways to make your business famous among people. For instance, they search for their precise needs to fulfill their goals. We have some tips for franchises which, if you think it as domestic franchise. It uses to display ads and also search ads for promoting the brand contributions as well as local locations. You are going to provide your franchises some extra ammo to increase buy-in the brand, and ultimately leads and sales as well. For Email Email marketing promotions provide an efficient way to increase your franchising business. Thus, it commonly calls an opt-in email marketing which means to send you appropriate messages to relevant customers, potential customers, referral associates, or even to the retailers. So, it means they specifically choos to send them promotional email. It also considers as an important task because if a user has preferred to accept content from your franchise. They will find it more probable to open the email. So, this type opt-in email marketing plan considers more efficient to get you required leads and sales you are looking for. We commonly visit different websites for various purposes or visit an online purchase site to do shopping. Most of the websites get well designed and properly optimized in all aspects. Visitors land on specific website to fulfill their needs instantly to any eCommerce website to buy something of their needs. So, your website must show something very attractive to them for gaining their involvement. This way, they will stay for long due to your catchy content and start searching their required products or offer for which they come for. But, if your website presents a poor look with no attraction and have no striking content available for the visitors. Such websites simply mean useless and it better you mustn’t have one instead. So, you should avoid creating a poor website which cannot add benefits for you in any aspects. Here, you will find some effective tips which will support in designing a value added website. Setting A Noticeable Aim The main aim identifies yourself whether what type of web development is required to you. One thing makes extremely important that the subject and the content type do not really matter. The thing really matters, is the level to set a measurable objective. Even, you should aim before selecting what type of website you are willing to design, such as: Your visitors spend more time on your product page. Boost blog traffic Increase the sales conversion Initially, you got to be specific and ensure that you can extend your success from the beginning. You can be confident that your website is fruitful for business generating. Visitors Must Get What They Need Any website offers its ideal benefits to the customers to keep attracting them. So, whenever visitors land on your website, they must surely achieve your target what you have set. They should attract to your product and here striking content plays an important part along with the products and their attractive images that force the visitors to stay on your site as if they get what they are being looked for. So, you should try your level best to aim something like that they get prominent information on your website including entertaining aspects as well and to inspire, your visitors before they leave your page. Offer Something Very Different Today, we got the support of easing to like or share something that can be posted or written from the very beginning. S, this makes businesses flourish by giving the idea or offering something exclusively new. So, one can easily get the services of your team and to create really fascinating for the visitors. Therefore, when they land on your website; they will search for their required products and stay for some time. You got the option to spend time, skills and your money in creating something new and fascinating for the visitors. But sometimes, you simply need a fresh, rare standpoint with a familiar topic. So, you need to clutch ideas, probably very interesting from the visitors’ point of view. A Final Word When you have completely done with your website research for new creation. Use successful ideas to set everything good in convincing manner for your website designing to strike your visitors. Try to create your content in such a way that it represents the piece of sentiments or information to the visitors. So, getting a worthy website for your business; simply set your initial goals, try to convince your audience and offer them something new. All such attractions would inspire your visitors and probably they will stay for long on your website. A/B testing defines a technique of comparing any two versions of any website page. Likely, each page to conclude which one actually accomplishes the services better. AB testing provides fundamentally a type of experiment where two or more variations of a website page. Both the pages are displayed to users on a random basis and statistical study utilizes to define which deviation executes the best to meet the goal. About A/B Testing It openly associates a deviation against an existing capability to run an AB test. It lets you ask concentrated about variations to your website. Then, it gathers statistical data as to the influence of that alteration. This type of testing takes the estimation out of your website optimization. It also allows data informed assessments that move business dialogues. It can easily evaluate these influence that variations have on your metrics. Even, you can make sure that entire change generates positive results. How To Assess A/B Testing? You can simply take a website page for an A/B test for proper screening and modifying purposes. It needs to generate a second version of the page and modification provides you a single headline or a thorough redesigning of the said page. The visitors will serve with the mechanism or variation, their involvement with both the experiences. These results provide observed and collected analytics through a statistical engine. You can then decide whether the varied experience had a positive or negative impact and there might be no effect on visitor behavior. Why A/B TEST is Require? It remains certain about the A/B testing permits individuals or teams. Even, the companies create cautious variations to their user experiences. It happens at the time of collecting statistical data on the results. This lets them build hypotheses, and also to study better in wide aspects and provides a specific element of their skills impact the user behavior. We can also say that they can verify as wrong - their estimation about the great experience. A certain aim can prove incorrect through this A/B test. Just answering to a one-off question or somehow settling a divergence, AB testing can utilize constant to frequent advance it with known experience. It also enhances a sole aim such as exchange rate over time. Also, testing a single change at a time supports them to identify which variations had an influence on their visitors’ actions, and which did not. Appealing Changes They can associate the results of numerous appealing changes from tests to prove the assessable perfection of the advanced experience over the old one. This technique of presenting variations to a user experience similar permits the practice to optimize for preferred results. It can also create essential steps in a promoting an effective campaign quite efficiently. The marketers can acquire which version of the website page attracts more clicks by this testing ad copy. Also, by testing the following landing website pages, they can study which arrangement adapts visitors to customers’ excellent. The entire spending on any marketing campaign can truly reduce if the fundamentals of each step involved work positively and possible to obtain new customers. Final Thoughts Finally, A/B testing can also utilize through involving product developers and the designers determine the influence of new structures. Even, the variations serve as a user experience after both the pages are tested. On boarding a product, user involvement, modals, and in-product understandings can all enhance with the proper use of A/B testing. So long as the aims obviously present and you have a definite hypothesis on this. It’s not a path rather a maze! Customer journey starting from research to final purchase decision is not always frictionless. On their way, they bounce away due to poor navigation, response time delays from CSRs. Or perhaps due to unrealistic delivery charges over a product that they were willing to buy. An e-commerce seller needs to keep a track of each consumer path, and find out if it was filled with hurdles. While some issues pertaining to customer journey can be addressed in real-time, there are some that need long-term planning and a proactive approach. Why map customer journey? For starters customer journey mapping prepares retailers who aim to smoothen the path for an incoming customer. Furthermore, they would study the customer psychology to anticipate their shopping behavior and expectations. It’s an interesting exercise that begins by developing personas from the different types of customers interacting with the brand. For example, you can build a persona by identifying a group who actively search for coupons to make purchase decision. Some questions about the following Would enable you to build a persona: Demographic Psychographics Actionable insights The idea of building a persona is to internalize the prospects and reach out to them as real humans. Customers usually expect a personalized answer for their query. Over 40 percent of consumers say it would be helpful if a physical store knew about their own online research conducted, prior to them purchasing (in-store) Forrester Of course, the first stage of the consumer journey comprises of research. Today’s customer relies on numerous channels to find the relevant product. What comes after exploration? Customer decision making When customers reach a decision for purchase, it is never a linear path in e-commerce industry. Many times, they go back and forth between the actual trigger and finalization. Sometimes they are unclear about credit card charging procedure or perhaps faced shopping cart glitches. They may not necessarily use online platforms to interact with your brand but an ecommerce seller can map their journey by determining the following: What’s the frequency of visits to my website? What are the product pages this buyer is interested in? Has the customer subscribed to the newsletter? What was the pathway along different product pages? Experience on e-commerce A customer can possibly engage with your company, or visits a product page or goes through an online experience. However, in the online world, it could also be a combination of experience and engagement. The more touchpoint you have, the more complicated will be the maze but it will definitely maximize your brand reach. As an ecommerce seller, you have to work on 5 prime aspects once you have mapped the customer journey. Attract Interact Engage Convert Retain In the process, the highest value customer journeys’ are noted, their shopping pattern and behavior is studied. This enables ecommerce sellers to create valuable experiences for similar customers. Let’s delve into some tips from the pros in ecommerce Pearls Of Wisdom On Enhancing Customer Journey In E-commerce More presentations from Arpatech Ecommerce business sounds somehow complicated. But, it reflects a risk of turning it into an insignificant exercise or something that provides people a great path to shop online. Ultimately, it becomes important to define the beginning and determination of e-commerce. Also, it surely provides a deeper understanding of the concepts behind the e-commerce platform. Initially, we can classify its two parameters that make the most of what actually ecommerce is doing. Goods to sell Whom to sell Therefore, these parameters became the base of ecommerce to sell necessary goods to the people who need them for their living. Those parameters provide necessary analysis and awareness to understand the types of business models and to manage it financially. For instance, people need to fulfill their daily required products and manage their online shopping through such ecommerce platforms. So, e-commerce businesses can sell their physical goods, digital goods, and services to the customers with ease. Therefore, your ecommerce business websites should add and represent all types of services precisely. If you don’t have one, get it designed your professional website from any recognized custom website development agency. Classification of Ecommerce There arise many parameters in ecommerce that needs proper evaluation. If we talk about simply air tickets, it means to deal with the availability, seat location, meals, refundable or not, and have to face many complexities. So, if we take eCommerce business to serve people; it will provide a simple direction to serve them. Here, classification of Ecommerce Business becomes quite easier; if we think it as the nature of the participants. It means the two common natural participants are e-commerce businesses and customers. Image source Finally, we can create four primary modes of e-commerce business types that are serving people effectively. Business to Business Business to Consumer Consumer to Business Consumer to Consumer E-commerce Business Mode 1: Business to Business OR B2B Business to Business (B2B) means both are businesses and fulfill their needs from each other. This results in the increase of volume and value of B2B e-commerce and becomes famous as well. Such businesses mean whether they can be manufacturers, suppliers, distributors, retailers, and wholesalers etc. Image source E-commerce Business Mode 2: Business to Consumer OR B2C When we talk about e-commerce, generally people have an idea about e-commerce business as B2C. Mostly, the name of Amazon clicks in the mind of people which is the most common example at present. It means, the biggest logic for the rise of business to consumer e-commerce, the elimination of physical stores. But, it also means the complexity and cost of logistics can become an obstacle to the growing B2C e-commerce. Image source E-commerce Business Mode 3: Consumer to Business OR C2B While Consumer to Business e-commerce seems a bit unbalanced. We can say, the online commerce has authorized the consumers to initiate necessities that businesses accomplish. This way, consumer places request and numerous companies bid for engaging the project. In other words, consumer orders for the requirement of a holiday package, several tour and tourism companies offer their services. Image source E-commerce Business Mode 4: Consumer to Consumer OR C2C When people listen about Consumer to Consumer, their minds at once click to eBay. As it is the greatest and widespread ecommerce platform serving as C2C to sell goods to other consumers. Since, eBay is a business and people may also call it C2B2C e-commerce platform according to its provided services. Image source Conclusion Therefore, people have plenty of options to get services from the above four modes of ecommerce businesses. They can realize their values of all modes of such platforms and about their services acquired from them. Moreover, it provides us to make like-to-like evaluations across e-commerce businesses. At the same time, it also supports to realize the understanding of different business modes that e-commerce is serving. The number of fraud cases constantly increases in e-Commerce. As well as, the ratio of fraud in online transactions also observed quite frequently. The attempt of fraud does not happen just exclusive to the credit card payments. But, the threats also involve in wide use of malware to facilitate the online banking logins. These things can happen via telephones, tablets and personal computers as well. Thus, the frauds can commit easily through the stolen bank accounts and to make fake payments. Even, the alternative payment procedures also appeal the criminal minds. Here, we describe how and what the fraud looks like, precisely? The most familiar types of fraud presented below: According to a survey conducted, the easiest types of fraud cases attempted with the online customers are identity thefts, fraudulent attempts, and account thefts. The credit cards are considered to be the most widespread target. Identity Theft Identity Theft becomes quite common among the evil mind criminals across the world to target e-Commerce industry. Their main goal attempts the transactions through using diverse identity. The impostors merely take over an existing identity to fulfill their crime instead of coming up with an absolutely new identity. According to the crime branch report, it considers to become easier for them. Generally, work much faster as well to perform their tricks in this way. Friendly Fraud System Another form of crime of fraud surveyed and named as to Friendly Fraud. This sounds responsive than it really presents. Because, the customers place an order and pay to prefer a pull payment method by using credit cards or direct debit. It seems to use this term or method. Then, they purposely initiate a chargeback request, claiming that their credit cards or account details were stolen. Thus, the amount gets reimbursed, but the goods are kept within the company. This type of fraud, system becomes popular chiefly widespread with services in most of the places. The Friendly fraud also happens frequently with the re-shipping. It means the place where the evil mind impostors use stolen data of the payment to pay for their purchases. They get it before the amount sent to their residential addresses. Clean Fraud The most impressive type of fraud case that recognizes as Clean Fraud; it's somehow confusing. In Clean Fraud; cyberpunks use stolen credit cards to make purchases online. But, the purchased transaction at the operated in such a way that fraud revealing functions is bypass or evaded. In this type of clean fraud, the offenders use complete analyses of the fraud revealing methods arranged. Also, an abundant deal of knowledge about the legal owners of their theft credit cards. A boundless deal of precise information then moves into form of entry during the process of payment. The scam discovery solution becomes viral before committing the clean fraud with a card testing process frequently carries out. This includes making economical trial purchases through online just for checking the theft credit card data works or not. Affiliate Fraud The impostors involve in two types of Affiliate Fraud variables. Both of them have the equivalent intention or target to plan a successful fraud. The main aim means to collect more money from an affiliate database by controlling the online traffic or through the statistical signups. This way, the committed fraud can be implemented either using an entirely automatic process or by involving actual people to log into websites via fake accounts. Technical Fraud This type of fraud means one of the most challenging types of security threats called Technical Fraud. This sort of fraud used within the e-Commerce businesses using various evil techniques and one can’t even think of them. Technical threats commonly faced by e-commerce provider as they have tried their best to set appropriate precautions against this crime. The criminals are using technical fraud attacks, and in precise denial of service attacks. Usually, it aims e-Commerce websites or to services hosted on high profile web-servers. These types of fraud attacks get targeted at banks, credit card processing, online retailers, and also the social networking sites as well. Good customer service requires that any business would follow the approach of, “The customer is always right.” This means the certain phrase commonly use for serving customers in the best way. Because, it helps out to deal well with the finicky customers. They are willing to show their great attention in buying something. They enable to find at the time. The phrase certainly helps out a business to grow successfully in such situations. Since, upright customer service means vital for charming repeat business. Regrettably, it gets noted that this tactic won’t work with every customer out there. In certain situations, the customer service finds their work pretty hard to satisfy their customers. It only happens shortly on an enduring basis. When such a thing happens, it means really significant to have a strategy in place to avoid the worst circumstances from rising. Screening Finicky Customers Normally, people who work in customer service greet their customers with a pleasing smile on their faces. Customers sometime get frustrated or even irritated due to certain issues; like not getting their deliveries on time. The wrong parcels delivered or sending of wrong product colors etc. Because of such issues, the customers requiring great consideration from the customer services get irritated. It normally means that company will lose important clients. At such situations, the customer service representatives try their best to reason with their clients. They try their level best to console or supports their hardest to fulfill their orders at their earliest. Getting Self Control The customer service representatives taught the useful lessons to fulfill customers’ demands and should always be self-controlled. Never should argue with clients when they become angry, irritated or complaining about certain issues faced by them. It means to keep in mind in this situation that you can lose a good customer if you lose self-control. It shows any irritation or displeasure to your customers. So, never to lose patience and always show calmness in your self-controlled. It should deal with your clients with a smile and try to resolve the customers’ issues successfully. Listen to the Customers Initially, it becomes really necessary to listen to the customers’ pain and grievances. They meant to face as they want to listen to. They wish their pain and grievances to be acknowledged and understood accordingly. Try your level best to show your utmost concentration by standing erect or sitting up straight. Avoid lolling or slouching which makes you seem careless, distracted and disinterested. Make your arms uncross; this indicates you are openly listening to the grieved customers with an open mind. Let them talk, and pay close attention to what they say or complain about and if you find necessary; you can repeat to some of what you hear from them. Show Sincere Expression The customer representatives should show their sincere expression for the customer's grievances. Their voices, body language, and expression should signify your attitude. People normally answer more to how you say something than what you say. Try to Resolve Customer’s Problem The customers expect to get their complaints to be resolved at earliest from customer service. You must try your efforts even if the customer's problems and issues aren't among your job duties. Just try to resolve their grievances and never speak this to them. Collect all the necessary facts from them and then let them know how you can be supportive to them in resolving their issues. Finally, make sure do not ever make promises with the customers that you cannot keep. The Internet had created a very noteworthy impression on e-commerce. So, the famous brands are trying their level best to sell their products online. This concept became an ideal way to sell products online and had opened new opportunities to local businesses. They can sell their products to their customers living in far away locations. We see a large number of online business stores are being already set up today. Many online platforms are arriving in the market instantly and are starting their new businesses. The new startups commonly face a lot of competition with the older online shopping stores. It becomes difficult when you sell your products online in their presence. You will find here some certain handy eCommerce tools for assisting online sales. Google Analytics - Tracks & Reports Website Traffic Google Analytics presents a free tool for getting the website analytics offered by Google. Hence, it serves its best to track website searches and complete reports. These reports can be easily downloaded to analyze the website traffic. You can gain the entire comprehensive statistical website reports regarding the visitors searching your website from different locations. You will find complete data available through this unique service. Moreover, it includes the visitors approaching onto different pages, page views, and bounce rate. You will find the data for average time spent by the visitors on the website. It also tracks the web pages per visit and the percentage ratio of new and returning visitors. Google Alerts - Detection & Notification Service Google Alerts serves one of the supreme tool supporting the online e-commerce stores efficiently. It supports in identifying the content change and provides notification service, presented by Google. This service provides the high alerting service immediately and sends emails to the user account. It does this when it discovers something new like new web pages, new articles, news, blogs, or any scientific research. Therefore, you will find this comprehensive ideal to match the search criteria of the users. Salesforce - Customer Relationship Management Platform Salesforce provides a highly supportive tool that is serving online customers to build long business relations. The main idea serves to supply programs and services for the customers in an innovative ways. Salesforce provides successful platform for the customers like social and mobile cloud technologies. It includes with flagship sales and CRM applications. MailChimp - Marketing Automation Tool MailChimp presents one of the ideal marketing automation tools. It serves a great platform that provides email marketing service and it initially began its services as a paid platform. This service added a freemium option later on and you will find it an ultimate software tool which is likely to change the way you market your business. It will provide an easy access to your product over the internet. Thus, it alerts an email marketing platform which offers you a number of easy choices. You can design, send and save any kind of templates of your emails. GT Metrix - Website Speed Analyzing Tool GTMetrix provided a famous tool that is being used for getting detailed performance reports of the website. It also serves as a free tool that is serving its best to analyze the speed performance of your website page. GTMetrix uses the Google Page Speed and YSlow to analyze the website which offers a detailed description of the best practices of speed optimizations. This service runs through a WordPress plugin which is a free tool to analyze your website speed. Thus, it presents improvement ideas and manage the performance accordingly. Hootsuit Amplify - A Tool For Sharing Content Hootsuite Amplify becomes a perfect tool to search and share news, stories, and interesting articles. It plays a vital role in sharing lots of more engaging content that allows employees to share their stories and news. Hootsuite provides a resonating platform that works via their mobile devices. So, it manages an employee support solution to connect all the staff. You can find it easy to create and to share permitted social content with their followers and friends. WooCommerce Currency Converter - Open Source Currency Exchange Rates The WooCommerce currency converter is offering great service which is a tool that enables global customers to convert prices. It converts the buying product prices as per the daily currency rate of their respective countries. So, the converter does the ideal thing that e-commerce tool is using the robotic sense. Thus, the currency converts easily for the online shopper’s existing place and region. This perfect tool creates the global online customers sense that they are given high value. Therefore, it gives the convenience through easy online shopping practices. The tool will finish the checkout process without departing from your online store which guarantees experience. Zendesk / Zopim - Livechat Support & Web Analytics Tool Zendesk chat supports as a tool for the online business that makes the personalization quite exact. It served formerly as Zopim and permitted individual support using several channels. The tool serves the website, phone call, lives chatting or via social platforms. Thus, this interface serves as an online tool, including recognition of your online customers. It supports the contact data, product buying history, and quite actions run successfully. The tool makes things easier also and to present a personalize audience service experience. Social media plays a vital role in our daily routine. It does not only mean to use it, whether for domestic or commercial purposes. But, people across the world stay connected with a large number of social websites. Most of whom had just met each other on these social platforms and never met in person with each other. Even, large organizations or small businesses integrated with social media and are working together for several purposes with strategic approaches. They commonly use the social platforms for marketing their businesses, brands, and products. This way, these social sites get more audiences from their targeted markets. Thus, these social platforms support the process of Search Engine Optimization - SEO, for getting top searches of such businesses, and products. But, sometimes excessive use of social activities can hurt top searches of these businesses. Observation of SEO Activities It also provides observation over social media, which can affect the SEO activities performed on certain business. It can even hurt the top searches ultimately. This means something that over-generalizes the statistical data that demonstrates a connection between familiar social media content and the top ranks within the searching results. You may have also observed that there are certain absolutes in SEO and the finest we can do is to get fluctuated data that happens as a statistically significant edge. It also associates with the common intelligence and using the best practices. The facts show below; how social media can bring a negative impact on SEO activities. To understand the best about social media and SEO; how they get connected and produce positive or negative results afterward. Even, the joined form may also become the main cause of increasing or decreasing a website’s ranking within the search results. We can explore and describe direct and indirect factors that may increase or decrease rankings. Direct ranking factors show through constant data and analysis to view the direct impact on rankings. While indirect ranking factors show a connection with ranking, but it cannot be ultimately described as a direct ranking factor due to lack of statistical data. Whether Social Media is A Direct or Indirect Factor We got to check whether social media is serving as an indirect ranking factor or providing services a direct factor. The impact of social media effects on search engine optimization frequently. Because, it is increasing the chances of getting direct ranking factors, for instance, the inbound links. Suppose, if you use social media for SEO, the improved searches explains clearly. There remains connections between the content that acquires a large number of shares or likes which rank well and get good searches. Influence of Social Media on User Statistics We have already talked about the user statistics and the specific roles that escalate rankings. Social media organize a well digital marketing plan that can assist user metrics with a great boost. Ideally, it observes when a content goes live on social media, a rapid influx of visits generates a signal in the algorithm of Google that provisionally bounces the content with a top rank. This goes top rank because of Google recognizes a solid attraction of the content. Thus, Google plays its part to confirm their users can get the content certainly in the search results. Impact of Social Media on SEO According to the association of statistical data gets a large number of shares on different social platforms. Even, you can have a great increase of followers or fans. It certainly won’t create an impact on your website or on SEO activities done for achieving the rankings within the search results. Social media marketing, of course, supports SEO rankings by improving the prospects of getting direct ranking factors. It also serves a positive impact on user metrics as well as the actual generated algorithm variables. About Drop Shipping Drop shipping is an ideal retailing method to start your eCommerce business which is a bit easier than other business. You don’t have to keep a stock of products in starting or doing this sort of business. You simply got to have an e-Store website designed for your newly started drop shipping business. It needs a partner as a wholesaler or supplier having wide range of stocks available in their inventory. You simply have to transfer your customers’ orders and the shipment details for your supplier. They will ship the ordered goods straight away to the your customers directly. Advantage You will find this drop shipping eStore business very ideal with lots of advantages in it. It neither requires a warehouse or stock, nor have to worry about shipment delivery to the customers. You don't even have to worry about a shortage of inventory issues. Your most customers don't even know about your drop shipping business, as the shipment labels as private shipping. Speeding Up Your e-Store Sales There arises certain factors to increase the sales of your e-Store which are found very successful in all businesses. You have to focus on different aspects while running this business and to manage your sales. Drop shipping solves quite many problems and avoid everything that sounds useless. The following are some actions to be avoided: Make Availability of Specific Product It becomes obvious in the eCommerce business that you shouldn’t drop shipping such products what others are doing. You should also be aware of the product inventory of your supplier whether they have products available in large quantity. If you pass your order for your customer; the product should be already available in stock at that time. This will ensure that your customer would not suffer any delays in delivering the product on time. Otherwise, you might lose your potential customers due to non-shipment or shipping the orders in delay. Set Your Specific Business Product You should have a good look over to set your specific business products that you wish to deal with. You should make sure that you are not trying to retail the similar product and having no specific point of difference. It can provide simple research on eBay and searching for different products you wish to deal with. If you find out pages of unsold items of your product with public sale; the supply exceeds customers’ demand. Check Out Some Business Platforms You can check out some related business platforms where you will find out more about the unique buyers and sellers. It will surely provide the product you are dealing with their site. Thus, it will provide you to gain more sales in your specific products. Avoid Back Orders A backorder is utmost shocking, costly and even hectic as well for drop shipping. It occurs when the supplier is unable to fulfill your customers’ sale order as the product you are selling goes out of stock. So, these sorts of back orders can become a reason for a great loss. Arrange Standby Supplier It is far better to make an arrangement with a secondary supplier as a standby so that if your customers’ order suffers due to shortage of products at your permanent supplier’s end, you can arrange the order from your secondary supplier. Although, secondary supplier may charge some more money in return, but this extra money will just save your potential customer forever. Add Complement Inventory Finally, after you are set in dealing with your current product as drop shipping, try adding a new range of products. This way, you can complement to your present shipping to test new product niches. Show interest to your supplier about adding a new range of products and willing to find out the response of customers by managing a few drop shipping orders at first as a test and will continue permanently if it succeeds. Web development considered fairly complicated in various aspects. In any project, there exists a host of phases to ponder before designing an ideal website for the user. The online users visit any ecommerce website to acquire details before purchasing any product. So, the web developers should provide every detail of the products. They must make sure the visitors find every process easier to find their required product details before buying. The concerns become negative and should get it according to its usability. So, you should try to resolve precise aspects of any professional eCommerce website. The developers will definitely plan all through the development practices, which states below: Necessary Optimization of Website It becomes necessary to apply ideal optimization to your website. You can probably lose your customers who can become potential for you in future. Therefore, you will find certain chances of statistics indicate about forty percent of visitors abandon any eCommerce website. It takes about more than three to five seconds for website page loading. So, the customers require fast loading speed to check the products whoever come to your website. Your site should load the pages instantly through proper optimization. The Receptive Designing The use of mobile phone devices plays a quite common role in today’s era. People visit and do shopping through their mobiles at large scale and it is increasing constantly. Indeed, a large ratio depends upon the factor of traffic of eCommerce sales. So any Professional web design company is focusing to design an appropriate responsive mobile friendly eCommerce website. You can imagine over one-fourth of the sales of eCommerce stats in 2017 was made possible through mobile devices. It becomes quite essential to ensure your professional eCommerce website. Therefore, you should serve highly optimized for mobile devices. Sure, it provides the success of your website with an ideal user experience no matter what device used to visit the website. It depends on you whether what platform you employ to your website designing. You should build mobile-friendly website simply to make sure you maintain web development perfectly for mobile users. The website should posses a basic navigation system to checkout and payment method. Vitality of Website Search Statistical data shows that about thirty percent of visitors use the search option for getting their desired products. So, it becomes essential to ensure your websites’ searching performs easy to use options when the visitors come to your eCommerce websites. Furthermore, it offers an upright idea to provide facilities like autocomplete features for assisting the new visitors to find common products what they are looking for. Another way provides the assistance of Faceted search to the users so that they can easily find their required products. This effective functionality becomes beneficial for them to get their required search in quite many ways such as via product category, size, and price range etc. Capable of Fulfilling Guest Checkouts ECommerce websites frequently require the visitors to make an account on their first visit. This does not seem necessary to purchase from any website. People are pursuing demographic data of the visitors to consider sales. Therefore, it seems essential to remember that everyone will not happily fulfill the process of creating an account. Customers who visit for the first time to buy just to check the authenticity of the website as they must get the idea about the site. Old users will acquire all the benefits of creating an account and it offers a good option to the visitors who just like to experience in one-time order. Almost, you can try to convert them into regular customers. Importance of Security The entire business websites should follow the SSL to encode information that requests to persist security. It offers fairly true for credit card users while making payment and you do not need any customer’s data such as address, telephone number, and email id, etc. The customers are coming online with a belief that their personal data will be kept on secure during purchase. It becomes highly necessary to make sure that SSL executed and the customers should belief on you that you care about them a lot. Consequently, customers will automatically provide personal information in future visits and surely create the account in return. Today, people are using various modern technologies to provide the best services to their customers. When we talk about Image Search Technology, there arise several points of confusion. People do not get the differences between image search, reverse image search, and visual search. Actually, these all terms sound somehow same but, it surely means a world of difference to them. So, while getting designed your ecommerce website, you should get the assistance of any reliable custom website development agency. Thus, you can fulfill your web development needs as per your business needs. You will find the clarification of the Image Search Technology as to what it precisely says. 1. Image Search It merely means that these types of images reverted back as search results - regardless of the process, method or the initial search query input. 2. Reverse Image Search A sub-category of image search permits an image or its relevant URL to be employed as input query. It gives back the results associated with the image which becomes an ultimate reverse image search. 3. Visual Search The process and technique of searching results create different and diverse. Where the search method achieves through consuming meta-data and keywords or by solid computer visualization. Use of Image Search Technology Any technology can work excellent at your eCommerce website when the image you are using is in appropriate size. The purpose of using such type of image shows that the software remains functional to a sole and isolated database. The created search results hinge not merely on the correctness of any technology. But, it also depends on the size of the data-base. So, if you got low-quality images in your database, the restricted number of identical and parallel images. It will execute image search technology to your e-business, perhaps would not attain ideal results. So, ask the best ecommerce development company to use the image search technology in the best way they can. This will ideally do for getting positive and ideal results to your business. Benefits of Image Search Technology The ideal benefits of this technology suggest a firmly incorporated offline to online practices. The online world combines and seems to work offline to discover ways to integrate this technology into various steps. To support the customers' expedition and commencing the offline encouragement to online product search. Also, it is contributing by an image search application that customers can easily get access on their smart-phones. Therefore, they can simply take photos of different products around them just as in real-life and find related ones on your e-commerce website. The offline to online changes now meant whole and smooth. Increasing Revenue Image search decreases the friction as your consumers simply take a picture of the specific product. The technology allows to discover the type of image required for uploading. An image search will take some time and will provide the best results. It associates with the present keyword search purpose on your website. It means; a fast online processing and surely upsurges the basket size and improves your commitment and alteration prices. So, you can precisely get your revenue increased as per your applied efforts in all directions. Keep Your Inventory Updated You should keep your inventory updated and keep your stock available all the time. Because if your customer requires such product and your website declares it, out of stock at the time of purchase. It will mean a great loss to you and hopefully the chances of loosing your customer as well. Compulsory Support In certain cases, definite technology wholesalers present their cloud-based software APIs for incorporation with vibrant documentation. So, you would merely require some internal engineers and user experience experts to execute the integration. You should also get the necessary support for extending to third-party structure integrates to fulfill the task at your earliest. Thus, the process would proceed a couple of days or about weeks to get it accomplished. It depends upon the complication of the practice cases you are intending to use for your website precisely. Few things that frustrate e-Shoppers while they visit any eCommerce store or website. It becomes irritating for the online shoppers and find abandoned shopping cart. You will find many online stores where there exists keen ways to prevent online shoppers from leaving their carts. One can start by ensuring a proper checkout method. It means short but simple and easy to recognize. Eradicate any needless steps so as to create a clear and visible trail to the checkout page. That comprises of enabling online shoppers for checking them out deprived of requiring to generate an account for emails before starting any purchase. One can easily eliminate confusions of the customers by avoiding surprises. It means likely unexpected shipping costs that can increase the probable total amount. Here, we are presenting some activities for better understanding and avoiding boggling shopping cart glitches faced by the online shoppers. This can apply right away to assist you reorganize any online store's checkout procedure. Also, it serves ideal to enhance shopping cart experience as well to keep e-Shoppers engaged. Creating Brand Checkout Online store's design can create an immense impression as branding which is perilous. At each part of the shopping procedure it includes the checkout as well. It observes that as branded website creates reliability with the logo and the marketing strategies. These strategies are serving throughout the website and including the social media campaigns. It certainly provides a more professional and impressive look to your online store. Thus, to avoid misconception for e-Shoppers. One can create a combined shopping cart with proper and relevant checkout available on the business plan. This way, customers won't think they've landed on another site by chance. It will surely provide more probable chances to complete their transactions. Hidden Shopping Cart Online stores should make sure the e-Shoppers that they can effortlessly find the existed shopping cart and checkout page available at all time on websites. Because the concealed shopping carts can create negative impact on direct sales. This can be done by using a highly noticeable shopping cart icon with an oversized button that also makes the cart simple to access while item counts assist customers to keep tracking of what they are actually buying from the stores. It is also suggested in this situation to try storing the shopping cart icon in your own navigation, so as to make it sticky so that the cart follows customers as they shop. Reliable Security The e-Shoppers also find to shop from such online stores that are well trusted and wish to know that website has been properly tested and certified by any globally recognized security brand such as McAfee SECURE. More than sixty percent e-Shoppers abandon such websites where they don't find any specific trusted security seal on it. Therefore, find the McAfee trust building apps for online store to support online shoppers' confidence while they visit to shop their needs. Promote Encouragements Through the promotional incentives on can easily encourage the shoppers to return and to the abandoned carts. Giving a call to action could be a real discount offer for the e-Shoppers. It can set a great reminder that there are substitute forms of payment, or a clear announcement that the item they were believing is on sale. To fulfill this need, it feels better to consider the customers who visited the store for multiple items and spent some time looking at the items they selected and added an esteemed value to the cart, or are some previous customers. With such obliging approaches and attractive features available on any online store, it will certainly encourage the online shoppers to stop glitching their carts. We live in an era where ecommerce has already developed and bringing new trends to serve people. Newer trends will assist in making online shopping efficient and fast for the customers. According to a survey, some forty percent people have no time to wait for a website to load web pages. Therefore, ecommerce industry is using Artificial intelligence to make things move fast in the coming future. Artificial Intelligence in eCommerce AI technology has already facilitated different industries with wider aspects. Now, it can provide effectiveness in ecommerce to make things move even faster. Artificial intelligence (AI) is one of the technologies that can support ecommerce as it has proven its worth at present in different fields and is offering great services in marketing, finance, and medical etc. It can also make a splashing assistance to ecommerce website development services to design user-friendly websites. So, people will observe massive benefits that artificial intelligence will provide to online shoppers and to make things work faster. Artificial intelligence can bring ideal impacts to let grow ecommerce industry in coming years. Visual Search Online customers will get a specific chance of visual search using the software. It will effort eCommerce websites for generating visual search competencies. It will surely permit the customers to add a product image for buying. This will help customers to find and shop their required products for purchasing easily. The visual search competencies, mainly via mobile phones, read the item for recognition like color, shape, size, and brand. This eventually assists the customers to get immediately what they are searching for. Offline To Online Practices The visual search competencies can now produce the ties from online to offline practices which were never done before. It redefines the way of customers how to participate with their brand and trade in coming future. It will introduce a new ways for the online shoppers and to develop the customer services. You will find it fruitful to generate the prospect to sell additional products to the customers. It provides a reason of self-sufficiency to the customers and thus ecommerce shopping will practice the AI to collect information. Such as to post on your e-store, likely product review, service in making better or to make ideas consequently. Personalization When we talk about personalization in ecommerce, thanks to emerging Artificial intelligence technologies. It can support online brands to increasing access to tools that are laser-focused on personalization. You will find many retail e-stores that are working collectively to filter their customers' history with specific recommendations. These collective filter base on their maximum viewed history results, top sellers, finest trends, and common parameters. These filters seem to be incomplete and are limited because they merely collect figures from online stores. Artificial intelligence brings a unified customer practice across all the channels. Virtual Individual Shoppers The retail e-stores are serving their best to promote the virtual individual shoppers idea for the customers. Brands are surely creating additional collaborative shopping practices so as to offer product recommendations. They are created with usual discussion and reasoning statistical data resulting from Artificial intelligence. The smart shopping subordinates are quicker than humans and surely can evaluate massive quantities. They are quick in collecting facts and figures in negligible time and accomplish human-like relations. Thus, the individual shoppers will develop an engaging point of contact for customers in the future. Thought of Audience To Artificial Intelligence According to a research firm, they reveal that customers are immensely interested in how Artificial intelligence will be implemented in retail e-stores. Seventy percent of idealization in the United States says that they would grow a brand using Artificial intelligence to demonstrate more fascinating products. While seventy-two percent people have faith in technology advances with brands consuming and AI will serve enough to let ecommerce grow more successfully. Bigcommerce and Shopify are both well-recognized software. They both allow you the best services for selling your products online. Both the services simply run on the web browsers effectively. It means that there is a nonentity to install on your desktop computers or on your laptops. So, you can easily manage your online store from any location through the internet. The Idea of The Two Platform The perfect idea behind the services of the two software is that you can successfully use them for creating an online portal. It works well without requiring anything likely design or code. You can simply have to pick a template from a wide range of theme designs provided to you. So, you can upload your products and mark your product prices. Finally, you will see both the platforms will let you gain your successful business. Easy To Use Shopify provides the facility to add your product as per your need. A user can fill remarkably detailed fields for entering data for title, description even to link text to different websites. The web pages serve to barcodes, catalog policy application, and image gallery. The standard data fields of Shopify offers the whole thing you require for uploading a product with all precisely. BigCommerce is providing services to designing for a large number of websites for customers all over the UK. Also, it serves simply a drag and drop tool. This tool provides consideration for very ideal for small and medium-sized commercial requirements. The e-commerce platform structures to provide somehow left behind other service providers. But, at the time of navigating this platform is not that much tough and the features provided by this ecommerce tool are fairly limited. Even, you can also add colors, cost prices, and sizes. But, it does not show as obviously as it does in Shopify. Business Support Shopify provides phone call support and to answer customers’ questions 24/7. It also serves well for online authentication to save the time of the customers. Even, this software provides a domestic number to call. Ecommerce community of Shopify works very energetically which means lots of tips are on hand. BigCommerce also available 24/7 to support their customers on all channels. It means to serve dedicated responses to ideal claims. Thus, it supports to resolve most of the issues on the first call and to response the customers in less time. Professional Technical Support Shopify has been very devoted to providing the technical support to their online customers successfully. So, this platform does the best in making the transition and getting someone to recognize how to supply goods accurately. The expert professionals list work and try their best to provide satisfaction to the customers. BigCommerce goes beyond the build partners of Shopify. They suggest optimization experts to provide the best technical support to the customers. Ideally, it is serving the best to expand the services to the online customers. They try their level best to incorporate their technical support whenever they require. Available Apps & Plugins Shopify devotes highly to providing e-commerce apps and plugins. These services require to provide the best services to the customers. About 5,000 apps have worked already and are serving the customers all the way long. Moreover, a long list of apps continuously releases everyday and presents Shopify arena with lots of choices. BigCommerce has a very limited quantity of apps available as compared to Shopify. The customers have limited options to select with free and paid plans. It is also serving to categorize into marketing, the point of sale, and product review. Features & Benefits Shopify has set an attractive pricing plan for their customers, which are reasonable for the startup and new customers. Also, it includes with all the inspiring features along with the availability of alot of free add-ons apps to offer more e-commerce swag to the customers. BigCommerce has planned standard package offer, including various features with sales points for a year, which is added on a monthly basis. It provides the apps that add power free of charge in different modes. Since, the users of Social media platforms are increasingly using different image sizes and formats to post or share their topics. Here, are some updates over image sizes which will be used as an updated format in 2017. The Social media image sizes will explain you what will be the best and appropriate image sizes for posting on your social network. Every main social platform is mentioned below with the relevant type of image sizes which will be used as a proper image optimization. Tips & Guide You will also find some very swift understanding tips and guide to help you support for making your mind set up on what image size to be used on what social platform. It will be a worth to note tips that all the images, including logos or text may be ideal for uploading on different platforms in PNG formats, while the photos will do in JPG formats. For Facebook The image of the Facebook profile picture which commonly appears throughout your Facebook main page and represents you or your brand if it is used commercially. So, the Facebook profile picture images can be used at any higher resolution than 180 × 180 pixels size. This picture image is only displayed on your profile page at this resolution size. Profile picture image size: 180 × 180 pixels The cover photo is basically the featured image which appears at the top of your Facebook profile page. If any image size is uploaded lower than 828 × 315 pixels, you will notice that it will be stretched out to come across the size. Cover photo image size: 828 × 315 pixels The feed images are the photos which are commonly used in your newly created posts. It displays on your profile page and will be visible to other users’ news feeds. Facebook is still to upscale images which are lower than 1200 × 630 pixels sizes. It is recommended that the uploaded images that are greater than 1200 × 630 pixels sizes, still fulfill the equal feature ratio. Image sizes in feed: 1200 × 630 pixels For Twitter The image of the Twitter profile picture that is commonly appeared throughout on your Twitter main page and represents you or your brand if it is used commercially. Profile photo image size: 400 × 400 pixels The header photo is basically the featured image which appears as a circular frame at the top of your Twitter profile page. If any image size is uploaded lower than 1500 × 500 pixels, you will notice that it will be stretched out to come across the size. Twitter is still to upscale images which are lower than 1500 × 500 pixels sizes. Header image size: 1500 × 500 pixels The In-stream photo image that is commonly appeared in your entire tweets; should be 440 × 220 pixels sizes, which is the at least requirement. In-stream photo image size: 440 × 220 pixels. Maximum file size: 5MB for photos. 3MB for GIFs. For Instagram The image added in the Instagram profile picture is commonly appeared throughout on your Instagram main page. It represents you or your brand if it is used commercially. Just similar to Twitter, Instagram also complies a circular frame for profile your image. Profile image size: 110 × 110 pixels Instagram post photos consider very vital content over this platform. Therefore, it provides getting the best result from Instagram posts and images. You must upload minimum 1080 × 1080 pixels resolution sizes. The images are higher than 1080 × 1080 pixels the said size will be scaled back. While, the uploaded images set in the feed will appear as 600 × 600 pixels sizes. Post image size: 1080 × 1080 pixels For YouTube YouTube appearance varies on different devices that are used for. It has presented distinct appearance for desktop, mobile, iPhones, tablet, iPad and TV sets. Therefore, its channel cover photo image size is the best at 2560 × 1440 pixels sizes to upload. Channel art image size: 2560 × 1440 pixels Thumbnails provides YouTube videos as a fast snapshot for audiences. It serves better recognition what the video is really about. The image suggests to fulfill these needs by using a 16:9 featuring ratio. It is trying the best for YouTube players and previews. Video thumbnails image size: 1920 × 1080 pixels The success of any business requires complete dedication and commitment. You got to fill your days with hardships, the intention and excitement to make grow something. Precisely, the success of EBay presents a great story of hardships and excitement with which they grew their business from zero to a great multinational e-commerce platform. It has provided a fair and successful platform for the online consumer to consumer and business to consumer sales and services. Business Plan The ideal success of eBay has been recognized due to its exclusive business plan. This plan allows the customers and businesses to provide an authentic ecommerce platform for auctioning of new or used items in a very low price. EBay, however, an e-Commerce Giant, initiated this sort of business plan with a humble beginning for the first time in history at that time. They got the help of ecommerce website builders for getting them designed an ecommerce website. Thus, it got an appreciating success from day one. Investment For Startup The startup of EBay has not been that much easy enough and they ran out of money. They had a great idea, but they couldn't hang on for long. Things generally take four times as long to accomplish and cost at least twice as much as you'd expected. Any startup requires money for inventory, advertising, and to buy the necessary hardware, software, and services for the new trade. They started as a garage operation with low overhead. They got a small loyal and dedicated team to work, perhaps inch into profitability in a few months. They were thinking over larger operations, but might have taken some months or a year or more to flourish into a profitable business. Finding Out Stuff To Sell Initially, there was a big problem for eBay to finding enough stuff to sell. Being a seller, they had that challenge and tried their level best to fulfill their requirements. They worked with dedication to getting the stuff to sell. They appropriately managed the stuff and even collected money for packing and shipping auction items. Some sellers thought that they can make the most of the money by making their own products to get them sale on eBay. Therefore, they thought of adding value to selling items to keep very cheap in price. THE FIRST SOLD The founder of EBay, Pierre Omidyar, remembers the First Sold on EBAY and describes how the first item was sold. They listed a broken laser pointer on auction after they created their business website. That broken laser pointer on auction attracted many people and received numerous bids. Finally, the auction ended for that broken item with its sales amount almost $15 ($14.83). It was really unbelievable, but a successful start for EBay. Finally, Pierre wrote the evergreen memory in the history of EBay for everyone. Never Thought of Selling Discarded Items Every company reaches to its success after hardships and facing great challenges during the startup. Such company knows the reliability of selling goods and they never sell junk or discarded items to customers. Selling junk to your customers means to end up your own business with your own hands. EBay had started their business clearly with authentic products and never even thought of selling discarded products. Thus, they got good bidding on their every item and got a great gain in their profit to acquire success. Best Customer Service Your business will be a success if you have fulfilled in providing the best customer service to your customers. It is necessary to provide the ideal services to your customers and to make them satisfied in all aspects. Your success lies in keeping your customers happy with your best services. It builds a unified trust on your business for long and they become your potential clients for good. Maintaining Records The ideal key to success is to keep your records well maintained. It is really necessary to keep a record of your business sales and purchase. So, it looks also a good thing to maintain a complete detailed record of your customers who purchased what item(s) at what date and time everything. You should also maintain a record of your inventory, money spent on purchasing item(s). Moreover, to maintain money gained from purchasing, collected sales tax and money you owed or paid to customers etc. Sometimes, you are willing to publish or post something on social media. But, your mind does not get what to post or which platform to use for posting? Certain questions arise in mind whether it would be awesome for people or not. Will the post be useless for the readers or inspiring? Your post or shared material, should directly represent your business or services. You should bring some ideal ways to create social media posts to present your business goals to the people. This way, your efforts will work to create the successful post for the social platform. Some of the following ideas will help you create a post on social platforms. Build Relationship Through Post You must create a post that can build a relationship between your audiences and post. It establishes a connection with the people to talk about your brand or what you have described in it. You should try to create a type of bonding post i.e. providing the prospect to show goodwill, humor, and imagery. For instance, share a post having a humorous quote, interesting information or attractive graphics or images fulfill your digital marketing media needs. Such attractive images surely build a sense of fellowship or relationship towards people who are interested in your products. Increase Reliability Social media post will not gain the credibility surely for instance, or it will not ask anything from your audiences directly on any social platform. Even, such updates may not increase as many likes, shares, or retweets, but you don’t need to worry it at all. Although, your post will not gain engagement, it will surely increase the credibility with different goals. Likely, it will aim to create your brand as a thought, service or a leading product. If you share your company news, press releases, interviews or any type of events etc. These types of post will over time enhance the brand awareness and position of your business as an industry leader. Invite People For Discussion The main idea to use social platform is to share your post as inviting people to have a conversation on something about your product or anything. It is a perfect and friendly way to ask people to talk and simply to open your social media for two way communication. It reflects a reliable way to build your social relationships with a large number of people having a conversion over your custom invitation. One of the best ways to create your post in the form of getting the idea or advice from your audiences. It means customers are more interested to have a memorable discussion over related products or brand services. Rather than to have advertisement in your posts. Share Blog Content Even, people constantly create new content such as blog post sharing as social media updates. That’s not necessary, the main thing is to share your best blog content again as a repost or re-share which will encourage people. So, you may fully allow reposting your content that you have already shared before. It is a modest way to present your audience that you are reposting the same content as you think it right that they should see it again. Share Curated Content Your audience will not listen to you on social media if you simply wish to advertise your company or brand. Instead; you should actually offer a value to them. Try to represent as a constant source of timely and presenting significant information. This way, you can get appreciation from your audiences and they will surely like your post. Even, you can post workouts, inspiring quotes, ideas related to your brand products for sharing curated content with the audiences for their engagement. It provides an observation that people who do shopping visiting markets are now shopping online. They are using online ecommerce website to fulfill their shopping needs. They increase in number gradually and are also introducing their friends and families. It provides an easy and convincing way to shop online. People are shopping their products from online stores and they consider it quite easy and time-saving. You can simply visit any shopping site you like the most and search for your required product. Confusions & Misapprehensions But, people suffer loads of misconceptions and hesitations which remains in their minds. Online customers face several confusions while shopping especially from small ecommerce businesses. They are facing confusions but not completely aware of the authentic products are available or not on the stores. Because, they fear of fraud chances, afraid of using credit cards, and theft of personal data etc. To Bust Notable Myths Every ecommerce store is serving their best to provide relevant shopping needs to the online customers efficiently. It is providing a matter of anxiety among several people as they face quite many notable traditions of the ecommerce businesses. Also, it means really significant to bust myths that surround the online selling and purchasing. It provides recognition to the right and accurate sort of online ecommerce businesses. The seven widely recognized myths are coming your way. You will find them during online selling and should need change. This will surely make the online shopping a success for all. Myth 1 - Ecommerce Does Not Require Business Experience According to the myths, most entrepreneurs think that ecommerce business does not need business skills. They provide something that is just under impression. The ecommerce industry thinks of getting quick money and that it does not value any experience. This older tradition should also change for good to do something good for all. So, a person should certainly require proper business experience to run any ecommerce business successfully. They must become proficient enough to make wise decisions associated with the business needs. Myth 2 - No Ecommerce Website Long before, the businesses run without having a prominent website. But, the basic needs of starting or running any business is a professional online website. It has become a newer trend in today’s modern world. A proper website presents the point of interaction among the customers. They can easily get all the necessary information of the business through it. Hence, it serves a precise way significantly to manage an appealing and serviceable website. Myth 3 - Confusing Online Shopping Even though ecommerce has advanced its ground across the world and people are more and more directing towards online store shopping. People are still following the old myths of ecommerce shopping, it is somehow easy to encourage people and to bring them to the needs of buying online. It is not just easy but time-saving and free from visiting markets through a great traffic jam. The latest trends are being introduced to persuade the customers to leave traditional shopping and accept online shopping which quite is effective in various aspects. Myth 4 - No Profitable Categories It is observed that ecommerce stores normally sell such profitable goods. It includes only from common categories. Ecommerce market generally includes of popular goods such as apparel, fashion products, and gadgets etc. It is already facing a sort competitive situation. So, it is also better to leave the old traditional shopping methods. You can accept choosing less widespread category products. This will make the online store more successful to make shopping ideal for everyone. Myth 5 - No Surity of Sold Products Online According to the older ecommerce myths, there were certain ideas for keeping the products available for sale. A great many product categories were missing from the list and thought to be void to sell online. The evolving ecommerce gave a new vision to the online stores to add still more variety of products. This will make sure what is available online for the customer's ease. Customers can easily find from kitchen utensils to grocery items, fresh farm products to fashion jewelry. You will find a large variety of product category available for online shopping. Myth 6 - Price Was Not Considered Any customer would certainly attract towards getting best prices on their buying products. People suffered the pricing problem which was not at all considered in old myths of shopping. Older ways became easier to make the online shopping effective and leaving old traditions behind. The customers can have the major benefits of getting the best and ideal online shopping in best prices. The effective factor is to increase the customers is through setting the ideal prices on all goods. Myth 7 - Insecure & Time Wasting The older ecommerce traditional ways of shopping was a bit insecure and also time-consuming for the customers. The newer trends made amendments to bust myths. They manage to provide a high level of security and safety in different ways. Like, in cash or credit cards handling, avoiding any risk of leaking customer’s data. You should manage to process and deliver the order shipments to the customers as possible and save time. Conclusion So, customers can feeling free by getting the ideal services which were not available before at any web store. Finally, they can buy their required products as per their needs. It will let them find detail specification that they mostly look for during shopping. Marketing is serving its best to provide possible ways to create a successful business. People visit online stores to fulfill daily needs and shop as consumers. So, you should make the process of shopping very easy and ideal for the visitors so that they can become your permanent customers. Initially, use local marketing trends to flourish your business locally and gradually move on to market internationally. This way, you can increase sales domestically by using different tactics of local marketing. You must take the advantage of such trends as a business owner and grow your online business to get success. Local Marketing Local Marketing is generally serving all sorts of businesses in different parameters. It is also supporting the web developers in ecommerce website design and development so that they can build websites meeting the criteria of marketing. Even, it is supportive to optimize your website and to provide necessary online advertising assistance. So, it plays a vital role in creating awareness of business in local regions and will easily drive traffic to your website. Local marketing also means to get assistance from your neighborhood and attract customers from local market. Specifically, it will help you target and bring your potential customers from physical stores. Avoiding of Local Marketing There exists one precise reason to why people avoid using local marketing trends and do not utilize its empowerment. It clarifies that Google algorithm practices a searcher’s location to function significant local business. It means that your running business will get more opportunity against non-local competitors by using local methods of optimization. So, local store marketing influences this in form of giving you the ideas, schemes, and approaches. This will serve you to make it simpler for converting the local traffic into successful sales. Therefore, it will also serve you in both ways either online or in person. Benefits From Local Marketing Ecommerce business can get ideal benefits by using the trends of local marketing. Because it does not means just about cataloging some location or specific products. It means to cater your businesses in all directions and to increase your customers and grow your sales. It will also take you to a targeted approach with your customers and will provide a manner that looks more special. So, the local trends will favor hyper-localized marketing to increase your customers and make you successful. You will find some Local Marketing Trends to localize your eCommerce website and increase conversions successively. Consider Your Values Just consider or rethink about your business values and you got to think the major changes between large corporations and how they perceive as contrasting to smaller businesses. Because, some customers think that small businesses are ideal for quality, personalization, and reliability. According to a survey, Stability and Pricing are only two factors which customers favor national chains over small and local businesses. You may consider your business values so as to become a trusted brand to target your customers within a specific region. Enhance Your Website To Mobile Friendly The website serves a vital role in creating and increasing your count of potential customers. It should work perfectly well on all types of devices that customers can probably use for shopping. Suppose, you live in the USA and you can find a large number of web development agencies in USA. They can help you design an ideal mobile-friendly website to meet your ecommerce business needs. So, your website will get an ultimate touch of a professional ecommerce site with enhanced features. Each and every functionality must work well i.e. its loading speed, product categories, precise product images, and everything. This will attract your customers to spend more time to shop their required products. Localize Business Ads Now, you should get ready to spend money on advertising your business on different platforms. Just to make your business gets locally aware and recognizes in your locality and further across the regions. You must start advertising nationally and then move your campaign towards international to grow your fame widespread. Precisely, you can target your products through outbound marketing efforts and use the power of demographics. You can localize your business ads through paid marketing and promote your websites and products to your local customers. Later on, repeat the same process for international promotions and marketing. Engage Local Social Platform Time to use your local social platform to get publicly recognized within your regions and later on globally as well. It becomes very easy to connect with different people and create awareness of your business using social platforms according to their domestic locations. Remember, just use this platform to create genuine connection with the people. This will increase awareness of your brand products through the interaction. You must not push your hard sell directly on social platform which will create entirely negative impression about your company. Ideally, you may simply use hyper-local targeted keywords to socialize your products in hashtags, bios, and posting. Conclusion You can experience all sorts of local marketing tactics that become effective for your ecommerce business. This means, you can create accurate interactions with your local customers and can speak their languages to provide relevant customer services to them. Moreover, you can arrange meetings occasionally at any local event to create company awareness. The customers simply want to feel to whom they are connected with i.e. to the Human side of your business. Consequently, you got to prove that hyper-local marketing is the ideal way to get customers’ attraction and to flourish your business successfully. Generally, web designers provide an ideal graphic way to design the modern era website. They get trained and acquire the expertise of visual graphics designing. Here is the top priority that the designers manage: Creative concept Color theory Typography Icon development Diagrams Infographics Interactivity rollovers Drop-down menus Digital slideshows Call-to-action buttons Forms But, we think the user experience is far much better over designing. So, a slight discussion presents over this topic. It will provide what we prefer User Experience over Design. User experience means, how a person feels while working together with a digital product. It contains a lot of elements among which some are manageable through the designers. The developers are involved in designing the websites which are environment-friendly or simply they fulfill user preferences. But, user experience does not mean similar to usability, but it means the experience, emotion, intuition, and connection. Further, any specific user feels when they use a website or any product. Usability means somewhat about the efficiency of a website development and designing. It surely means how much it gets designed as user-friendly and presents significant elements that encircle entire user’s experience. So, it has developed to encompass the user-centered design and it ultimately works on the same idea presented in a different way. It really works very imperatively for any digital product(s) which means quite necessary for specific kinds of digital products. Such as complex websites, retail sales, startup websites, and low budget projects are likely to run for long periods. User experience in terms of design means fairly essential as graphical identity and it doesn’t matter what your website looks like. Even, if people don’t recognize how to cooperate with it, they must enjoy such type of interaction. User experience means highly important for complex websites, because, the users can enable to run the website easily and know how to use it precisely. One of the best complex kind of websites can contain fairly on a retail or online sales basis. Here, not only the websites need to manage well. But, it must also have an apparent and easy way to practice signals for how to create a safe and protected way of purchasing. It also becomes ideal for small businesses because the websites will become their first impression for the users. This first impression surely matters when it comes to leading traffic and business to your product. A similar idea also applies to businesses that it exists with low budgeting. User experience means to be of great importance because it can make certain that the momentum propels the business onward. Conclusion When we observe poor user experience, the concerns becomes highly observable. It also becomes necessary to think about the actual problems such as incapability to compare plans before making certain accounts, overloaded servers and downtime, issues in creating accounts, and facing problems in filling out applications. All such problems produce a negative passionate connection to the users of the websites. Additionally, the six vital benefits to adding user experience to the design and development practices which are: improved output, increased sales and revenue, diminished training and support costs, decreased development time and costs, decreased preservation costs and improved customer satisfaction. Linking is an integral part of SEO (Search Engine Optimization) whether you are linking to another site or being linked to. And while we talk about SEO, doindex, noindex, nofollow, dofollow, meta robots are some of the most commonly heard words which carry equal importance in the SEO domain. We all know the fact that there is a great connection between your links and Google ranking. So, if you’ve missed out on linking, you won’t be able to appear on Google’s top 10. As According to Moz, ‘99.2% of all top 50 results had at least one external link pointing to the website.’ The links we provide are important as they provide SEO value to a website and improve your visibility on search engines. From the search engine’s viewpoint, it is a well-known fact that not all links are equal; what is important is how a site handles links because it can determine how search engines handle those links. What Is a DoFollow Backlink? Dofollow is a link descriptor that describes search engines to crawl them and count them as quality votes. It forwards the authority from the referring website to the linked website. The crawlers count these links and their anchor text. Thus, dofollow backlinks directly affect your backlink profile because they send a signal to the search engines about what the linked website is about. What Is a NoFollowBacklink? Nofollowed links are hyperlinks with a rel=“nofollow” tag. They do not pass the authority because the rel="nofollow" tag in the HTML code of the website tells the crawler not to follow these backlinks. Thus, Google does not transfer authority or anchor text to any of the nofollow links. What Are These Links All About? Search engine results are a competition for authority on search results and ‘links’ count as votes in this contest. Every time some website links to your site, you earn credibility, and the more you have, the more successful your SEO efforts will be. In short, if a website is receiving more links, it will rank higher in search results for any of the specified targeted keywords or phrases. These links form connections between pages, websites and blogs; meanwhile search engines use these links to crawl, explore, and index new pages. Moreover, they use links to find the authority of pages and relevance to search quotes. Impact of Links On SEO If you want your SEO efforts to pay you back, try building links from a reputable website. It will multiply your SEO efforts and will make your website a credible source. It is one of the first tips that is given to startups for instantly improving their organic search engine ranking. Even though nofollow links are technically powerless, they can contribute to other links that do. For instance, a high-level government website might link to you using a nofollow tag. Still, a number of other sites can see a link and a link to you from their own site. It's vital to keep this in mind as you work to build relationships with others in your industry, to get links to your website, and link to other content on the web. How Does SEO Value DoFollow Links? As explained earlier, Google takes notes of dofollow backlinks and determine how many users are getting linked to your page in order to know how good the page is. So, the more dofollow links you have, the more points you get. They are basically a feature of HTML, which allows search engines to follow the links. If you have a webmaster link to your site with a dofollow link, you can be followed by the search engine bots and people. They pass on link juice and really make the most of your website to get a high-page ranking. Note that, if you want to make the most of the follow link to use your keyword as an anchor text. Also, get dofollow links from a reputable website and not just any anonymous website. Dofollow links help improve your page ranking, gain SEO points and boost link juice. As a result, your site will get a high ranking in SERP. How Does SEO Value NoFollow Links? It is necessary to keep inbound links natural, otherwise, it will look sneaky. So, it is important to use nofollow links for your inbound link profile. Maintain a good balance and use both tags effectively since it will not only put your link in a neutral position but leave a good influence on dofollow links. Your links are a gateway to your website, catering to your audiences. So, if you keep a good balance of quality links; it will show your content and can offer you a decent amount of traffic. Having a nofollow links on big mediums doesn’t mean they are of no use or value. Any site with a lot of traffic could be beneficial for you. Such traffic will help you deal with leads; conversions even get a dofollow link. Getting your links on authoritative websites and social media, forums, and blogs can help you bring much more traffic to your website. The takeaway here is, do not presume which links are going to be of value to SEO; think about links that would be worthy for your business, product, brand or service. Think about the links which might boost your brand value. Conclusion You need both nofollow and dofollow links in order to gain organic traffic from Google. They are necessary for the long-term success of your website. If Google crawls and finds dofollow links only, it will view this as manipulative and tag your links as spam. Therefore, it is better and safer to keep a healthy balance of dofollow and nofollow backlinks for the perfect link profile. Waking up to nightmares is usual for programmers – that is if they ever get to sleep. Innocent gestures on worried faces, holding a coffee mug in one hand and a pencil in the other, with fidgeting legs is how you will spot a coder from a distance. A word of caution – try to avoid eye contact for more than 2 seconds if they are at their work stations, for that’s the time it takes to mess up a code. Programmers are indeed the epitome of human fear. For them every day is Halloween, and every night a curse. You will also find them cursing much too frequently not because they hold grudges. They just have bugophobia (fear of catching a bug in their code) that lives inside them and creeps up like anxiety along with other similar fears. Not surprisingly, all their life is a struggle to bury their fears and prove to the world that contrary to popular belief, they are not zombies. For born developers, this is not just an occupational hazard. These are the qualities that they are likely going to take to their graves with their tombstones reading “RUN” instead of “RIP”. Ain’t got a developer’s life if there’s a possibility of resting in peace. This Halloween we will confront the situational demons that strike fear in the hearts of programmers around the world. Get a visual glimpse of some of the prominent fears among developers. Change of requirements amid a project When you are ahead of schedule and couldn’t believe your luck, that’s when the irony of the situation hits you. Debugging a multi-threaded code oh the creeps.. Social contact You shudder at the idea of being reminded about your profession. SQA guy .. devil in disguise Picture a child unpacking the drawer you just packed. Being stereotyped and judged In a group of party animals, you are the loner, or (worse) introduced as the “IT guy”. Suggesting a deadline Well, technically it’s no use cuz you will have to bend time and space to achieve your suggested deadline anyways. Non-technical colleague confronting you instead of Google It’s both: the moment of glory, and the moment of disgrace combined. Hearing the word “just” with a never-ending task When you see words mocking at you. Every time you hit run command Soldier, Brace yourself for impact! Learn another programming language No one understands the torture that is language better than a programmer. To sum it up, not everyone has a miserable time coding and/or an aversion to all the above-mentioned situations. Do you see yourself trapped in an endless nightmare? Or are you living on the sunny side? Share your thoughts and have a bug-free Halloween. Hardware startups commonly observe to fail for certain reasons. Even, large business tycoons have disappeared from the scene. But, it does not mean that your will power had also suffered from that failure. Firstly, you should know the mutual reasons of failure in hardware startups. You should organize yourself along with your team to avoid barriers of the startups. A common saying reveals that hardware is hard. But, it does not mean that it is not conceivable. You can dare say that the introduction of any hardware product is not that much easier. If you have started as the initial platforms; somehow, you must consider to proceed with the innovative idea of products. Here, some ideas present to focus arising challenges on hardware startups and avoiding failure. Misjudging Product Development Expenditures It works well when necessary steps are taken to develop a product from scratch. It comes out with a huge budgeting which means its success to starting a new business using all the resources. But, you will find yourself still facing the expenditures on the trail to commercialization. Even, you may have heard several tales for other businesses which show what can truly occur. Something, when we do not precisely estimate our real costing budgets. Even though, huge organizations are earning millions and billions of dollars of revenues. Yet, they have forced the shutdown. Thus, the hardware startup underestimated not only the budgeting costs. But even, their development timeline ended up with a lot of irritated customers and major delays. Dearth of Targeted Market Research & Confirmation Market Research provides one of the major needs of any business startups and of course it is really significant when you plan to enter any industry. You got to have a proper research over the targeted market and should be continuously confirming the researching facts. It will help you focus your targeted market so that you can easily get the idea of specific industry which you are venturing into. Having quite many startups can create a situation with the products in a void, so only realizing that later will not be meeting the needs of their targeted consumers. So, you should have proper understanding of your customers and obtaining their feedback all the way through the process of development. This means quite good and necessary to have a successful startup. Reluctance To Alteration Original Product Concept For a startup of any business; sometimes, you think that the original idea will not work as you have thought to be. It means the product you finalized for your startup might not be as good as you dreamt of, so you might alter your thought over having a new product. Even, your designing concept might change due to giving preferences to your customers and manufacturing limitations. No wonder what the motive be exposed to have a change, but it makes clears a great thing to have a good idea. It will surely make you embarking and successful on this journey in the first place. But, you should feel ready to alter that idea if you think it necessary in the future. Incorrect Manufacturing Companion Finally, think over your business, you should remain confident to have the right manufacturing companion. It is necessary when coming to the level of manufacturing phase of your precise products. You will be attracted to certain things which will inspire and provide you an effective trail to your success. Your manufacturing companions must add services in different means to you as to speed up in every process. They should accurately confirm the reliability and the importance to remain open in communication. You will observe the precise characteristics to seek for contracting an authentic manufacturer who will make the most of your business needs on time. Many startups appreciate working with small business groups at the beginning. It observes to be advantageous because they think that their products will get real attention to them. Single page web apps (SPAs) are rapidly becoming the solution for web application development. They give an extensive user experience and take complete advantage of responsive web design. So, What Are Single-Page Web Apps? Single-page web applications or SPAs are the software applications that can be accessed through web browsers and can be displayed on single webpage. They are able to dynamically update content as a user interacts with the app without needing to reload the entire page. Single-page internet applications usually use HTML5 and Ajax features to build a seamless user interface that feels like a desktop or a native application. If you are using single spa for the first time, it would be a little tricky for you as you will get to encounter terms like “application lifecycles”, “root application”, “loading function”, “child application”, and “activity function.” The whole blog post will take you through setting up things and what decisions you have when you're using a single spa. It's based on Canopy Tax, where we walked from Angular 1 Monolith to Angular 1, React, and Svelte Polyglot. Step One – Pick a Modular Loader With module loader/bundler library you can use lazy load code. Webpack or JSPM is highly recommended if you are beginning from scratch. And if you have set your mind for Webpack try to use Webpack 2 if you can as it provides support for promise-based lazy loading. It will make the process easy for you in the future as single spa needs your loading functions to return promises. In case if you are unable to use Webpack 2, getting simple spa to load your code slowly with Webpack 1 will demand some boilerplate code. JSPM / SystemJS seems to have worse documentation than Webpack, but it's a viable solution for module loading if you get past it. For a larger community, better docs Webpack is recommended. Otherwise, go for JSPM because Webpack has no plans to support dynamic runtime loading. Step Two -- Create a New HTML File In the second step, create ‘root application’ which is just the stuff that initializes single-spa and it starts with an HTML file. Even if a project already has an existing HTML file, try starting with a new one. With a new HTML file, you will get a clear distinction between what is there in your root application and child application. Keep your root application as much precise as you can as it is kind of a master controller of everything and could hold up. As you wouldn’t be constantly changing both the root and the child applications. Here is a sample script for a single javascript file which will be explained in the next step. Webpack is possibly the most prevalent use case, my code examples from here on, we will suppose that you’re using Webpack 2. The equivalent Webpack 1 or JSPM code has all the similar concepts and only a few minor code distinctions. Step Three -- Register Your Application In the following step you need to conclude your root application by writing your “root-application.js” file. The chief purpose of root-application.js is calling singleSpa.registerApplication(..)all the applications that are managed by single-spa. You can think of single-spa as the operating system for your single page application, managing processes which of the processes are running at a provided time. Some of the kid apps will be active on the DOM at any time, and others will not. As the user explores the app, some apps will be unmounted from the DOM and others will be mounted on the DOM. The other way to look at this is that single-spa is a master router on top of your other routers. The other way to look at this is that single-spa is a master router on top of your other routers. To do this, first npm install single-spa and then call the registerApplication function: As single-spa is so very cool, an app called “cool-app” is created that will be lazy-loaded and mounted to the DOM when the URL hash starts with #/cool. The loadCoolApp functionality is what single-spa demands a loading function. Inside of it, the import introduces a code-splitting point — Webpack would provide distinct code parts that would be lazy to be loaded with a single spa. For any of your particular project, you wouldn’t have a hash prefix of “cool”, but establishing some kind of convention that makes it simple to decide which applications are active. It will make the maintenance of your activity functions simpler as you continue to add more child apps. If you are planning to start with one child app then it would make sense to apply the function as () => true. Once you have more than one app you can think about getting fancier. Lastly, calling start(). Is a must do in order to make things work. The main objective behind is giving control over performance and timing. Step Four -- Create “.app.js” File In the following step, when you open your index.html file in the browser, a blank screen will appear on your screen. One last step is building your app.js file. It is a configuration file that is created for each child application. It's the code that's loaded lazy when your activity function returns true. These are three things you need to consider in the app.js file: A bootstrap lifecycle A mount lifecycle An unmount lifecycle Lifecycle here is referred to as a function or a group of functions that will be called by single -spa; you export these from the app.js file. Thus, every function must return the Promise so that the single spa learns when it is finished. Here is a simple example: Here you get to see a document document.getElementById and innerHTML = You might see the document at this point .getElementById and innerHTML= and think that you've been duped and maybe single-spa is really just a bad excuse for the UI component framework Put All the Frameworks Together It is not a UI framework but a framework for using other frameworks. So, using multiple of them would do great for single-spa. You may write child application in any framework, as it applies application lifecycle purposes. Each child application can be written in any framework, as long as it tries to implement application lifecycle functions. The mini-apps will then work together to develop the entire single page application. Going back to our past instance, we may choose to write our "cool.app.js" as an Angular 1 app, and go for something else for future applications: In the example provided above, we have made use of a helper library called single-spa-angularjs In this example, we use a helper library called single-spa-angularjs which abstracts away the specifics of initializing Angular 1 apps. You may have noticed that the lifecycles exported as arrays of functions rather than just functions. You can choose whatever is suitable for you. Exporting an array of functions can contribute in your own custom behavior (for e.g. aboutToBootstrap and doneBootstrap) that will function before or after the lifecycles of Angular 1. Every object in the array must be a function that returns a promise when you export an array. Single-spa will wait to resolve each promise before calling the next function in the array. Step Five -- Testing It is time to refresh your page and you should have a functioning single-spa application. Now, go navigating to a URL that your child app is active for (`#/cool`) then navigate away from it. The page won't refresh when you do that, but you should see your application mount to the DOM itself and then unmount it. In case if you encounter any issues, try to narrow down whether the problem is in the root application or in the child application. Adding a navigation menu could also be important, so you can properly verify all mounts and unmounts to the DOM. If you want to improve your single-spa abilities, make the navigation menu a total child application whose function is () => true. Once you are done verifying, remember that every application goes through these five stages. No doubt, Wix has certain benefits and served more appealing demands depending upon your work and experience. It fulfills website aims; but, those who have worked with WordPress can feel the difference without any hesitation. It feels good, far better than Wix. Why Choose WordPress? People like to use WordPress instead of Wix; as it has self-hosted website development platform. Because, it lets you pick out which domain hosting you wish to use for getting your website live. One of the reasons; it has numerous graphical depicting hosting choices for WordPress and reasonable costs. While, Wix does not allow to host your website from somewhere else. So, it means you are completely stuck with the one you are with. Suppose, if you find your website is running very sluggish due to poor hosting services or else, if you wish to move your website’s data to any other domain, you cannot do so. Variations of Website’s Design Wordpress makes available with thousands of premade website designs which can be selected as per your needs. There also exists user created WordPress themes to choose as your required theme as per your business needs. All such themes are absolutely free while there are also a large variety of premium themes available to buy. Moreover, such WordPress themes can also be modified and adjusted according to your requirements. While, when you choose to build a website using the Wix platform. You can select your templates from the 400 options available to choose the themes. But, you cannot access the code or make any required changes to such designs or themes according to your needs which is a great setback of Wix. Able To Change Site Design The WordPress allows you to readily switch between the themes you like to change at any time. Because such themes will not affect the onset content already existed on your website. You can use any format adjustments as per your needs to fit better with your content to any freshly chosen theme. While one of the most limiting features of the website built with Wix environment is that once you select any template, you cannot change or remove it ever. Support Multiple Users on One Site A website developed using Wix interface has the only single user account and admin of the website. While a website created in WordPress platform, allows you to create multiple accounts to modify your website. Even, you can assign several roles to perform after creating necessary account's user for them. For instance, to update and adding new blog posts to your website. Likely, you can create accounts and give them limited access to the writers to post or publish blog articles. They have no access to use other functions of your website which main admin can perform. Necessary Plug-In Support WordPress also allows you to apply as many plugins to fulfill your needs for coding and the formation of plug-ins that offer its users. There exists the incredible number of tools also available to modify and control their websites accordingly. Whereas, Wix does not offer any use of plug-ins, but deals in apps to support and manage the websites in its place. You can find hundreds of apps available to select and use according to your business needs. But, all those entirely developed by the Wix team and have very fewer apps to select from them. Ideal SEO Management WordPress allows you great benefits not only to create a website, but also serves you the ideal search engine optimization (SEO) management on it. It provides a great SEO friendly interface to perform multiple SEO activities for your website. This way, you can perform good SEO practices within your website and generate more traffic to it. By using sufficient plug-ins available within WordPress; can help you optimize your website. It also advances its capability to make visible on different search engines. Whereas, Wix serves you with a very limited SEO feature within its boundaries. You can simply add the title and description to your generated pages, alt-text in images, and generate a sitemap. Perfect Platform For Blogging WordPress also considers one of the perfect platform and ideal for blogging. It serves you efficiently for creating and publishing blog articles using its interface. Once you start using your website, you have the best option to create blog posts instinctively. You can start creating blog articles as per your desired needs and you can simply use it easily just as writing in a word document. You also get the assistance of embedded different forms of media, such as images and videos directly into your post. Therefore, you can manage your blog posts with extra features to set publication dates to your blogs for posting. You have the options to assign tags and categories within the post and have much more features using the WordPress. Why businesses think to migrate their applications to the Cloud? The migration should certainly provide the benefits and assistance to develop businesses. Precisely, the migration process depends on the experience of portfolio discovery and planning. This happens when they conclude what is currently happening around and the mutual belief between two or more groups. So, companies must know what is good and requires migration and how will they migrate over a precise application. The enterprises can outline their plans using probable understanding on how they will approach migration of the applications. Complexity in Migration Companies consider to migrate over some authentic application such as cloud technology. The migration process sometimes becomes quite complicated. Certain questions arise in this migration process such as what are the interrelationships, what is easy to migrate and what hardships can arise to migrate, and how will each application migrate? The enterprises can sketch a strategy counting upon such questions on how they will migrate each application within their portfolio. There arise some complexities which should be handled precisely depending upon the architecture and present license engagements. You will find five necessary options required for migrating applications to the Cloud. Rehosting - Lift and Shift You can experience numerous primary cloud projects move towards new development using cloud competences. But, in a such a situation where any business is looking to measure its migration fast. It values that the most of the applications should rehost. For instance, if the businesses do not implement any suitable managed cloud hosting solutions and optimizations. They could save approximately thirty percent of the cost through rehosting. Precisely, the most of rehosting can systematize with innovative tools. Although, certain customers will prefer to apply this manually. So, how to implement their specific schemes to a new Cloud platform. It becomes certain that the applications easily get optimized once they are currently running in the Cloud. Replatforming - Lift Fixes And Shift Here, you may apply few cloud optimizations with the aim of accomplishing some obvious benefits. But, you are not. Because, you have to change the core planning of the application. You may also look to decrease the volume of time you consume while working with database instances. Like, migrating applications to entirely succeeded platform such as Amazon Elastic Beanstalk. Repurchasing - Moving To Dissimilar It has been ideally observed the most of the companies frequently get repurchasing for moving to a SaaS platform. Also, you may have observed moving a CRM to Salesforce or an HR system to Work day. Even, a CMS to Drupal and many more such examples came across. Refactoring - Using Cloud Native Features This concept characteristically determines through the robust business requirement to improve features, scale, or performances. Or else, it becomes tough to achieve the application’s present situation. Suppose, if you are looking to migrate system from a massive design to a service-oriented planning for simply boosting suppleness or thinking to improve your business endurance. Thus, such design leans towards the most exclusive thing. But, if you have a good product idea that fits the market needs; you can avail the most benefits from your product. Retire - Dispose of It sounds ideal that once you have discovered everything in your environment, you must ask each practice area who holds each application. Therefore, it becomes classic to find that as much as ten percent of businesses having IT portfolio, no longer useful. It must simply need to turn off. These reserves can increase the business situation. It will direct your team’s unusual attention to the things that people normally practice. Even, lessen the surface area you have to protect. Conclusion International businesses will find ideal options and possibilities for getting migrated to cloud application. They will perform a long term service and save the cost of ownership. From the cloud industry thought leaders, there are some who shaped how we deliver and consume technology today. They are the ones who remained steadfast in this emerging tech wave despite all false assumptions and myths on cloud computing. Besides debunking the common myths, they have been enlightening us with their opinion on “cloud-based” enterprise and other topics of crucial importance such as SaaS, AI and more. Other frequent topics of discussion in their niche are Internet of things and data mining. Instead of getting distracted by heresies, let’s decipher facts from fiction. We introduce you to all the influential voices selected on the basis of their popularity, analytical skills, frequency of tweets and also because they were our personal favorites. Without further ado, let’s start connecting. Phil Wainewright @philww Up next on the list is Phil, a writer, consultant, and a digital business expert who has promoted the business benefits of software-as-a-service (SaaS) and cloud computing and championed industry best practices. Also, he has a diverse experience with the teams of Salesforce, NetSuite and SAP to name a few. Connect with him to gain in-depth insights on cloud computing and software as a service (SaaS). Rachel Dines @RachelDines Rachel Dines is the Director of Product Marketing for CloudHealth Technologies, a pioneering company in cloud service management. She was a former product marketer at NetApp, and had been an industry analyst at Forrester Research. You can find her research getting cited in press including the New York Times, The Wall Street Journal, USA Today, The Guardian and Computerworld to name a few. David Linthicum @DavidLinthicum David has created a name for himself as a cloud computing blogger appearing as a contributor in IEEE Cloud Computing, SearchAWS and SearchCloud. He is often quoted by business publications and has appeared on NPR several times as a computing industry commentator, and does a weekly podcast on cloud computing. Ray Wang @rwang0 R Ray Wang makes it to our list of influential biggies who focus on business strategy in the post-cloud era. He is a market maker focused on business strategy and disruptive technologies. With his dynamic presentation style, he breeds life into complicated topics such as AI, digital business, future of work, digital marketing transformation, matrix commerce, next generation customer experience, consumerization of technology, and data to decisions. On top of that his blog provides insight into how disruptive technologies and business models impact brands and enterprises. Well, do you need more reasons to connect? Laurent Miltgen @kubernan Currently he is Founder and President of Cumulos and Head of Projects & Solutions at Elgon S.A. but he’s been appointed as Solution Advisor, Microsoft Practice Manager, Head of Cloud Computing Department. Laurent is a multiple year MVP and is regarded as an expert in many facets of Microsoft Technologies as well as Cloud Computing. Evan Kirstel @evankirstel Evan Kirstel is a B2B tech influencer with 200K Twitter, 25K LinkedIn and 140K Instagram followers, he helps massively grow social audience and leverage social media as a B2B sales networking, he leads generation and thought leadership tool. Kirstel is building an influencer network of fellow B2B thought leaders to help brands achieve massive visibility and scale across the social media landscape. He is an internationally recognized thought leader and social media influencer in IoT (#1 in 2017), Cloud, Data Security (2016), Health Tech (#9 in 2017), Digital Health (#6 in 2016), B2B Marketing (#5 in 2015), AI, Smart Home, Digital (2017), IIoT (#1 in 2017). Jeremy Likness @jeremylikness Jeremy Likness is an entrepreneur and technology executive who has successfully helped ship commercial enterprise software for 20 years. His specialties are in catalyzing growth, developing ideas and creating value through delivering software in technical enterprises. Jeffery Kaplan @thinkstrategies Kaplan founded Thinkstrategies in 2001 to focus on the business implications of new 'on-demand' services, such as Cloud Computing, Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) and Managed Services on IT, Big Data, and the Internet of Things (IoT). The enterprises help with the sourcing decisions, software & IT solution providers, startups and established vendors with their go-to-market strategies. He also founded the Cloud Computing Showplace, which is the largest vendor-independent online directory of Cloud solutions and best practices. John Rymer @johnrrymer John Rymer has studied BS in Journalism and graduated from Ohio university in 1977. In 2003 he became Vice President, Principal Analyst at Forrester Research. He is a professional who leads Forrester's AD&D coverage of cloud platforms, including Microsoft Windows Azure, Amazon Web Services, and Salesforce's platform. John is the lead analyst on Forrester's application development strategy, sourcing, and structure playbook. His specialties are in cloud computing, enterprise software, and software development. Shelly Kramer @ShellyKramer Shelly Kramer is the CEO & Founder of V3 Broadsuite. She has worked with various brands to lead them into the digital space, embrace disruption and the reality of the connected customer, and help navigate the process of Digital Transformation. Her knowledge of Big Data, the Internet of Things (IoT), Mobility, Cloud, and Collaboration, and her work with CMOs, CIOs, CXOs, and more, mean that her insights on innovation, disruption, customer experience, and transformation are based on real world experience. For those who like to keep track of insights and latest news on cloud, let's connect to the pros of this sector. The price of developing mobile applications differs depending on many variables. The price of developing mobile apps is mostly based on many factors, such as features, complexity, and platform. Different target audiences expect varying applications; which affects the price of developing the mobile app. Let's give a quick overview of the cost of developing an app and its key considerations. Factors that determine app development cost App Feature x Time x Hourly Rate = App Development Cost Factors that affect the costs of app development Functionalities and scope – What would be the functions of the app and what it will present to the customers, the platforms it will support, and whether it is designed for particular devices. Visuals – complex visuals greatly increase the cost. Third-party-integration – when an app is focused on its platform against taking data from another app, more development cost is required. Optimization – Hardware features such as GPS, NFC and motion sensors makes a substantial difference to the cost. Location - Cost is highly dependent on the country/location of the development. For instance, USA charges about $150 per hour approximately while in Europe Euro 130 per hour. Time Estimated – More time spent of the development costs you more. Maintenance – Continuous maintenance is demanded by the app. Approximate Cost Estimate Instances It must be kept in mind that the costs given here are only average estimates and that the reality may not be compliant with these figures. Educational Apps The price of building a primary education app for children, including quality assessments, would be around $5,000 up to $15,000 for the more advanced ones including specific fields of study. Retail Apps The cost ranges from $25,000 to $35,000 for small retail stores that can run up to hundreds of thousands of dollars for well-established chains. Healthcare Apps 36 percent spend less than $25,000 until launch, while 12 percent spend more than $500,000 on the budget. The average development price from design to launch is about $425,000, with almost half going to third-party app development agencies and freelancers. Estimates are for average prices only. For high-end applications, the costs may get higher. B2B Apps Web hosting and bandwidth would be around $2,000, app design and development would be $5,000 going up to $35,000, and marketing and launch will be dependent on the scale of the events. Cost Estimations for: iPhone App Development Android App Development The development price of iOS is influenced by the rigorous demands of Apple's AppStore in terms of languages, formatting and the specifications of the iOS mobile app development toolkit. Average cost to develop an iOS app – about $28k Android app development expense wants you to consider a comparable set of variables, and you'll need strong, all-around Android expertise. This involves demands and, most importantly, experience in working with Android-based custom operating systems. Average cost to develop an Android app – about $23k With the new millennia, we were introduced to a new generation called generation Z. While still in their late teen and early youth, this segment is keen about e-commerce and online shopping opportunities. The generation of post millennials is going to exceed millennials and are expected to mature soon. For they learned to swipe a screen before they learned to speak. Before we delve into the specifics on marketing to post millennials, let’s first understand some traits of this newly emerging generation. First tribe of digital natives Can you imagine a toddler could put you to shame? Just look at them using an ipad or tablet. This is the tribe of digital natives we are talking about. They will break all barriers to become the most tech-savvy generation in existence. They are early adopters when it comes to technology and are already showing signs of entrepreneurial skills. Marketers have noticed they they are easy to engage in e-commerce promotions and discounts but they still lack the buying power in comparison to millennials. They are quick in sifting through information which means bad news for marketers. In comparison to millennials, generations Zers have a further shorter attention span. Yet there is a relief. They understand emojis and brands need to step forward to communicate in the language they understand in shorter time span. Let’s explore more about this generation and how are they different from millennials. [caption id="attachment_4933" align="aligncenter" width="600"] Gen Y vs Gen Z[/caption] Gen Y vs Gen Z Millennials were hooked to social networks, Generation Z doesn’t want to be tracked, preferring Snapchat, Secret, or Whisper to communicate. Despite low incomes (pocket money), Gen Z spend more income online compared to gen Y. They suffer from FOMO (fear of missing out) more than millennials, so being culturally connected is critical Get Ecommerce development Help Marketing to post millennials Unfortunately, millennials and post millennials cannot be lumped in the same group. Marketers need to actively study generation Z and devise strategies to attract the most the digital natives who are already a promising prospect for e-commerce. 71% of Millennials followed an advertisement online before making a purchase, however only 59% of Gen Z’ers said the same. Go mobile and get creative No other generation was such a frequent user of smart phones as generation Z. They know how to sift through marketing material on mobile. According to a study by Forrester, generation Z supersedes generation Y when it comes to taking pictures on mobile, music and video streaming, receiving text alerts and while looking up for directions. Despite this frequent usage, when it comes to purchasing products, 40% of Gen Z does so at least weekly compared with 49% of Gen Y. A similar disparity appears in researching for products on mobile, 61 percent of Gen Z does so on mobile at least weekly compared to 66 percent for Gen Y. We know for a fact that they are spending more time on mobile yet generation Zers are hesitant to make purchases online. This means you have to be more specific while marketing to them. Take for instance this mobile ad campaign by paramount to target 50 million people who visit Yahoo’s mobile home page each month. Near the release on the Shrek movie, the visitors to yahoo’s mobile home page saw the top of Shrek’s head near the bottom of their smart phone screen. Upon touching it, the Shrek would pop out and fill the screen. On tapping Shrek’s head again, they were redirected to Shrek mobile microsite where they could view showtimes and further info on ticket purchase. [caption id="attachment_4926" align="aligncenter" width="390"] Go mobile and get creative[/caption] Emotional advertising When generation z comes across something emotionally enticing, they look for emojis and share buttons. Normally they sift through ads that do not offer entertainment. Generation Z is currently hooked to snapchat and Instagram due to its playful nature. This explains why marketers are actively creating emotional ads on the platforms nearest to generation z. Brand experience is the new “Storytelling” We have seen how storytelling for marketing affects millennials and post millennials combined. However, the approach to targeting with a campaign can yield varying results. What captures the attention of millennials might not necessarily interest post millennials. Besides, the latest generation of digital natives do not have patience of stories without room for participation. Don’t expect Gen Z to simply sit back and watch, on Facebook or anywhere else. They want to be a part of the brand experience. Social engagement on snapchat To keep generation Z hooked to your brand, you must be on Youtube and Instagram. 93% of Gen Z say they visit YouTube at least once a week, and 54% visit the site multiple times throughout the day. They represent a socially-savvy segment of people which means word-of-mouth marketing really gets to them. Also, if they see a social craze gaining momentum, they will hunt down the source of origin and would want to be a part of it. Here’s an example. GrubHub really knows how to entice the generation Z who’s usually on snapchat. With the story feature, they created a sequence of photos that leads you to promo codes valid for delivery and take-out service. While the idea itself is profound, the addition of snapchat artist Michael Platco really boosted the campaign. This is a clear example on where to reach your most excited audience and how to keep them engaged. GrubHub Do you thinking all the above-mentioned techniques would work if they were aimed at millennials? Why or why not? Share your thoughts in comments below. Cloud Technology is a comprehensive tool to improve and enhance online businesses. The cloud ecommerce services offer great proven capabilities to expand online businesses. Cloud serves cost effective business model for owners to flourish their businesses quickly. It makes the most of enhancing the quality of the customer experience, a level that leads straight to success. Better still, the cloud delivers a constant and mobile-friendly online shopping platform that allows your customers to make purchases from anywhere and anytime. Cloud Technology The cloud technology provides a uniform computing service through their advance servers. Businesses can experience large storage capacity, handling databases, effective networking system, and also gets necessary software. The combination of all these services authorizes online shopping for your customers and to make shopping easier from any place and any time. If you are looking to optimize your online business successfully, you can consider the advanced cloud technology. It is providing the most innovative managed cloud server hosting services for your eCommerce businesses. Some core features of cloud are given below: Managing Order and Inventory Cloud is trying its best to manage your online orders and inventory. It provides a systematic method to work online through using software and let you run businesses effectively. In addition, the cloud software provides your required services to view your entire orders and inventory. You can manage your single and centralized tasks easily by using cloud software. Even, you can manage your orders using the website, mobile devices, and other sales points from a specific location. Cloud software also supports you to track product inventory closely so as to maintain your stock is available in the right quantity for your customers. Moreover, you can increase your relationship with your suppliers, wholesalers, and retailers using integrated networks. Advance Customer Experience The cloud technology for ecommerce has made everything incredibly competitive for businesses. The customers can avail advanced cloud benefits to purchase their required products. Your online customers can experience the advanced cloud methods which no online shoppers provide. Even, you can add more facilities and features to your ecommmerce site through cloud and make more attractive to gain potential customers. The cloud designing features assists you to add new innovative tools to the website. These features will support the customers to select their products easily. This way, the process of ordering will also become easier and well controlled to provide satisfying customer experience. Thus, cloud serves its best to create an advanced customer experience through all channels and devices. So, cloud urges to use the tools that make things much easier for the business optimization process. Marketing and Promotions Support Basically, success depends upon marketing and promotional activities. These activities serve the best to drag online traffic, encourage customers and create long-lasting business. Cloud technology is also providing marketing and promotional support to ecommerce platform for making businesses flourishing. It also supports to create customer profiles that contain multiple details. Even, it easily helps in organizing customer lists and supplies targeted offers to the customers. Moreover, cloud also assists to manage your entire digital marketing creativities. You can view your modified dashboards for observing the impact of any campaign through all channels. Conclusion Cloud technology provides an ideal solution to make businesses successful. It provides innovative powerful tools to make things easy and support ecommerce businesses. It manages orders, inventory, customer experience, marketing and promotional efforts effectively. So, the cloud provides you the best online shopping to your customers and get them satisfied when they purchase their required products. Thus, cloud technology creates a long relationship between businesses and the customers. Has it ever occurred to you that the cloud is an actual cloud? As odd as it may sound, there are people who believe that a stormy weather can affect the cloud. I am not saying this out of my mind. An actual survey conducted by WAKEFIELD will give you a clear picture about this storm of confusion on cloud computing. The survey found that 51 percent of those surveyed thought that stormy weather could affect cloud computing. The majority of Americans (54%) claim to never use the cloud, however 95% of those who think they’re not using the cloud, actually are: 65% are banking online, 63% have shopped online, 58% report using social networking sites, 45% have played online games, 29% store photos online 22% have stored music or videos online Obviously, there seems to be a disconnect. They are using the cloud without knowing it. We are about to present some clarifications about the ambiguous world of cloud and put some myths to rest. These are genuine concerns raised by entrepreneurs and need to be addressed before they too move to cloud. Myth # 1 Cloud is not secure Reality: It is more secure than traditional data sources Data theft and breeches have existed even before cloud servers came into existence. That existential risk can only be minimized with security features but it’s not possible to eliminate them. It is not difficult to see that security issues on cloud are almost similar to a traditional on-premise model. With various security tools and features such as data encryption, dedicated firewalls and other intrusion detection systems, it is possible to reduce risk to a far greater extent. Myth # 2 Cloud technology is way too expensive Reality: Cloud saves money in the long run With cloud service, your installation and maintenance costs are reduced if you switch from an inhouse data center. In the absence of the hardware facility, the cost of power, cooling and security is also saved. If a small business enterprise chooses cloud services, they will save money in the long run. Myth # 3 Performance gets poor in cloud Reality: Performance is enhanced with efficient resource utilization The performance has more to do with application design and deployment rather than its place of operation. If everything is designed and configured properly, moving it to the cloud would make computing efforts smoother. Furthermore, cloud offers load balancing, database management and integration with CDN providers. Hence we can conclude that performance of an application is not effected by moving to the cloud but it can be influenced by a faulty app design. Myth # 4 We can get stuck in the cloud Reality: It’s possible to move in and out of cloud While doing our customer survey we found that it was one of the top concerns raised by businesses. Well the logic for this absurd idea lies in the belief that once data is deployed to the cloud, it’s not possible to get it back. This concern can be resolved by choosing your options correctly. Usually you get seamless data integration that allows you to move the data in and out without any risks. Myth # 5 Cloud has taken away jobs Reality: It has created more jobs With every emerging technology, there’s a genuine concern about loss of jobs. We saw a major hysteria with the emergence of cloud computing. It is true that some jobs are affected when a new technology surges but it creates more jobs than it destroys. Cloud computing is no exception to that rule. Myth # 6 Cloud is just another modernized data center Reality: Data center modernization is not synonymous with cloud Another misconception that is taking the shape of a conspiracy theory is that cloud will replace data centers. Folks it can’t possibly shut data centers. Despite having cloud, we still need modernized data centers. The belief that a cloud is synonymous to data center modernization is a feeble myth. If there was any truth to it, data centers might have already been shut. But that is not happening despite the fact that a lot of apps have already migrated to the cloud. Myth # 7 Cloud is harmful for the environment Reality: Cloud computing is in fact eco-friendly An on-site data center requires a significant amount of power for the maintenance, cooling and lighting of the system. Moving on to the cloud would eliminate or minimize the need for an on-site data center. It must be noted that some cloud hosting providers have power-efficient technology. Moreover, in contrast to the servers of on-site data centers, the cloud servers occupy more data in less space and are more energy efficient than before. Myth # 8 The cloud will restrict my control Reality: It allows you to access and manage data from anywhere around the world. Contrary to popular belief, cloud allows easy access from around the world. The thought that it can restrict control first started when there were rumors about unknown data storage space. With cloud service, you get access to view your data from anywhere around the world. The only difference is that you don’t have to involve in the extra bit of managing your software and data. Myth # 9 I can lose data from cloud hence it’s not reliable Reality: Cloud technology provides better backup than current system Data theft is not the only concern for business owners. Loss of data due to natural reasons can be a real challenge as well. If you need consistent backups, cloud offers solutions and options to recover data in case a disaster strikes. Continuous backup and data recovery are the two aspects of cloud hosting that makes it better than the traditional ways to create and store backup. Myth # 10 The cloud comes in one size Reality: Cloud is more flexible and modular The notion of cloud being rigid is absurd. In fact, it is a more flexible solution that caters to the needs of various business clients by offering a wide range of cloud computing options. Moreover, it can be used on a modular basis. This allows you to select and pay for the features you choose to avail and scale up according to growth and demand of your business. If you are reading through this article, you must have encountered some myths on cloud computing. Were they reasonable concerns or outright sighs of the layman? Share your thoughts. Are you a newbie programmer? If you wish to learn about coding basics, the first step is to spare some time in trying to expand your coding vocab. Usually what developers come across the web in the name of search is pure gibberish. While books remain indecipherable, tutors and some teachers are just as ineffective to communicate the real meaning and the application of these coding terms. So how can you get it simplified? A clear understanding of some terms will enable you to understand the basics of coding. For starters, learning the language of developers might sound a little intimidating. Hold on, what about a non-programmer? The basic lingo used by programmers all the time is not understood by non-programmers. Well usually that’s ok unless they need to work with programmers. In that case, misunderstanding programming lingo is a bigger problem. But you know what, giving them a glossary would not always help. We can read or refer to the coding glossary and still remain clueless about some of the terms or use them in a wrong context. To ease that problem for all clients and employers with a non-programming background, we present a visual glossary for programming vocab. Get Professional Programmer's Help! It gives a clear picture about some of the most commonly used terms that will show up in coding manuals, or in conversation. Why use programming glossary? Why do we need to know about the terms that programmers encounter almost on a daily basis? Here are some of the possible users and reasons to refer to a programming vocab glossary. They serve as a glossary or reference for everyone else who has little or no knowledge of these terms. They present a complicated terminology in a simplified and understandable language It helps for those who feel intimidated by techno babble and really wish to decipher coding or programming vocab For learners and beginners in programming Despite the presence of glossary to explain the basic meaning, we can take help from the visual language that explains it all. Keeping that in view we intend to make programming terms more palatable, and digestible. So, we’ve put together some of the basic terms and presented them visually so that their meaning gets clear. Crash To cause a running program to stop due to an error. Debug To investigate and fix bugs Loop A piece of code that runs itself repeatedly Nested Contained within something like itself. Syntax The grammatical rules of a programming language. Integer A type of value that represents whole numbers. Float A type of value that represents numbers with fractional parts. Function A piece of code that is not run until it is called. Program A full piece of software that is ready to be run. Algorithm A step-by-step procedure to achieve a specific goal. Constant A variable that never changes it's value. Return To immediately stop a called function from running. Read To retrieve input data values from an external source - usually from a file. Have you ever tried to get inside the head on an online shopper? Usually, you will notice 2 evident situations. The visitor is decided about the product The visitor is uncertain but wishes to skim through options Now both these types of users can have difference in consumer journey but they will not bounce away from an e-commerce site if it has an effective UXD. An online shopper who visits an e-store can pinpoint these two possibilities. In order to create a seamless user experience, the web layout should present information that the visitor is looking for. As for those who get the basics right, they can encourage the visitor to buy from them. Whereas those who exceed expectation, they get a return on investment along with a happy visitor who will be motivated for repeat purchase. But a good user experience has everything to do with a good design. Let’s visualize what the user expects from an e-commerce site and how we can limit our line of action to certain do’s and don’ts. Let’s take a look. The do’s of UXD in e-commerce site Optimize loading times It’s a universal fact that all visitors are impatient and slow loading times can be death blow to an otherwise well-design e-commerce website. Preferably, the website should not have too many landing pages and their loading time should not be more than a few seconds. So while designing and coding for the web-pages, page load duration should be kept in mind. Create a page structure Most e-commerce web layouts get misleading when they fail to maintain a uniform page structure. When a visitor is navigating between pages, a uniform page layout will not let them get lost in design. For instance, use a similar header and side menu to be displayed on all pages. It keeps the users focused and they don’t have to worry about the change of design as they go deeper into website. Create organized search When e-stores maintain and display products in elaborate categories, it creates better search options for visitors. It’s frustrating for a customer to type a search query and receive “nothing found” as a response. The user does not have much patience to keep typing new phrases to get a response. They will not wait to understand how the system of the website works. The don’ts of UXD in e-commerce site Flood the page with ads Too many ads on an e-commerce site is not going to help. In fact, over-crowding of ads will overshadow the actual content. An online shopper has a far less attention span and excessive ads will affect page load times and presents information that they are not looking for. Hence, ads should be kept to a minimum number on e-commerce sites. Design that affects visitor’s ability to scan the page As a general practice, most visitors like to scan through a website before visiting a particular page. They wish to observe the e-commerce site and get an idea about the web layout by checking the visual cues such as pictures, headings, CTAs and general content placement. If a website has a complicated design, it will take longer for visitors to have a quick look. Use too many CTAs competing for attention First off, an ecommerce site needs to limit the number of Call-to-actions that can be displayed in one page. also, if the site has unrelated content and lacks visual hierarchy, then it will end up confusing the visitor. A page with CTA should limit flashy images and other distracting headings or irrelevant pop-ups. When several things compete for user’s attention, chances are they will end up skipping the CTA you intended them to land up on. Under-estimate the power of images Marketers can produce the most lyrical description for a product but if it’s missing the face, then all you are doing is making empty claims. As an online shopper, I have had a fair share of bad images or incorrect images for various product listings in various online stores. Never under-estimate the power of quality images in e-commerce, for they can certainly make or break your deal. Can we be the reason of our own damnation? The recent ongoing debate was sparked in the wake of Artificial intelligence gaining momentum in various sectors such as healthcare, transport, retail and beyond. The fear of unknown in tech world is not unheard of. There was a similar hysteria when cloud computing was introduced, but this time it’s not just conspiracy theories that are forming resistance. Some of the tech giants and science prodigies are continuously sounding the alarm. While major investors are optimistic and actively dissing all possibilities of AI taking over or loss of jobs on massive scale as a result of AI driven automation, the case presented by Elon Musk, Jack Ma and the likes is worth considering. Seems like an era of war of words between the tech giants. In one camp, you will see notable supporters making their case in favor of advanced artificial intelligence. But the other side acknowledges the power and prowess yet remains critical about its uncontrolled entry into mainstream world. It is touted as that invention capable of posing an existential threat to humanity if allowed to propagate at an uncontrolled and unchecked pace. Some tech giants are insisting we should place hurdles in its widespread proliferation before its too late. They believe the tech world is at odds because of this genuine fear that nations would compete to excel at AI and we might bear the far worse effects similar to that of the post nuclear obsession. To put things into perspective let’s hear what the top minds say about Artificial Intelligence becoming our currency. Checkout the compilation of quotes on Artificial Intelligence. Sounding the alarm Interestingly, the stance promoting AI is worth listening to but the problem is that we know far too less about AI than we realize. Conforming to AI Another idea suggests that humans will not suffer unless they choose to conform, or else. Some believe real intelligence can’t be replaced. So perhaps there is no reason to worry. Robots are just going to assist us in trivial and mundane tasks so that we can focus on things that matter and enjoy life. In some cases, we can witness some bites of wisdom that question the psychological and emotional need for humans to create an intelligent being. When you know Jarvis is a possibility not too distant. When you see companies actively investing in artificial intelligence, virtual assistants, chatbots and autonomous systems, it’s not difficult to anticipate what the future of tech holds. We know how Artificial intelligence has taken the central stage with everyone waiting for it to reveal more possibilities from the hidden closet. Industry leaders have already invested millions of dollars on artificial intelligence and are all set to discuss the possibilities from the tech world shaped by post-AI revolution. Currently, all tech giants are trying to acquire AI competitiveness. Apple has already acquired Emotient whereas Google bought Deepmind in 2014. Uber followed in their footsteps and acquired an AI startup called Geometric Intelligence. However, that’s just the tip of the iceberg. There’s news coming out on AI and machine learning and its progressing. Let’s get a glimpse of some of that by connecting with the influencers. Dr. Craig Brown Dr. Craig Brown is Tech & Business Consultant and a Big Data experts. He is the CEO of STEM Resource Partners and works diligently to increase the use of natural everyday language in technical fields to help facilitate the conversation between Tech companies and professionals. He is also a mentor and the author of the book “Untapped Potential – The Supreme Partnership of Self”. On his website, he shares articles that range from Internet of Things to Machine Learning and Big Data. Rebecca Fiebrink Rebecca Friebrink is a professor at Goldsmiths, University of London in the UK. She is contributing to the world of AI by developing new technologies to support human-machine interactions. She has developed a software for motion sensing namely the Wekinator, that uses supervised learning algorithms to create new instruments and systems that can respond swiftly to actions. She presented the Wekinator software at the Music Tech Festival in 2015 in London. Gary Marcus Gary is the founder of Geometric Intelligence who have also been the director of Uber AI labs. As a Professor of Psychology and Neural Science at NYU, he has published extensively in fields ranging from human and animal behavior to neuroscience, genetics, and artificial intelligence, often in leading journals such as Science and Nature. Adam Coates Adam has served as the Director of the Silicon Valley AI Lab for giant Chinese conglomerate Baidu. He started at Stanford, where he focused on machine learning, perception and vision. He was a Technical leader for application of deep learning to computer vision problems in autonomous driving which was part of his post-doctoral research. Angelica Lim She is a Canadian computer scientist with a Ph.D. in AI and emotions. She was part of the project for SoftBank Robotics’ Pepper robot. She is known to understand the importance of communication and has worked on robots and artificial intelligence for over 10 years, and is currently interested in signal processing, machine learning and developmental robotics for intelligent systems, particularly in the field of emotions. Alec Radford Alec is a Machine learning developer and researcher at OpenAI, an artificial intelligence non-profit supported by Tesla founder Elon Musk. He is also the co-founder of Indico.io, a company that sells a software product for extracting meaningful insights from data such as text and images. Connect with him on LinkedIn. Adelyn Zhou Adelyn Zhou is a technology leader serving in AI and bots. She has been recognized as one of the top 30 people to follow in AI, top 10 people in bots, and top 50 people in growth. She has experience at Nextdoor, Eventbrite and Amazon and has been a leader in the largest bot community of 23,000 members. Joanna Bryson Joanna is a computer scientist at the University of Bath, and an affiliate at the Princeton Center for Information Technology. She has expertise in designing intelligent systems into working AI systems to help understand natural intelligence. Well, those were some of the top minds keeping us informed about the world of AI. Are you ready to transform your lives to accommodate post-AI revolution? Share with us your thoughts and more avenues uncovered by this massive shift in technology. Facebook has 1.56 billion daily active users. Which is almost the 5X the population of the United States, 20% of the world population, and they are still increasing. The things we used to imagine at a period of time, i.e. auto and rapid responding via chatbots, 360-degree visuals, selling products, interacting on fingertips throughout the world, are all made possible thanks to Facebook! And if we talk about emails, they are a boon to businesses. It is an excellent way to reach out to your customers and prospects and keep them updated about your brand. Since it is a great technique for marketing, we are witnessing some ever-evolving trends like typography, machine learning, gamification, hyper-personalization, etc., which makes it a go-to for your marketing strategy. Facebook and email marketing are both quite efficient, and the overall outcome is much higher when used in combination with each other rather than independently. Being a marketer that incorporates email marketing campaign with Facebook will give a boost to your business. Why Is It Necessary to Integrate Email Marketing with Facebook? The notion that Facebook is an ultimate tool for reaching new customers is a myth. Facebook and email marketing are two entirely distinct kinds of marketing. Both can encourage sales, but they also offer a number of different advantages. Successful digital marketing is not just about getting an email opt-in or a single Facebook like, but rather about getting both. The connection between building a social media and an email relationship cannot be understated as if you were asking for one; you should be working towards the other. Although different marketing platforms function very efficiently on their own, joining forces and incorporating both Facebook and email marketing can significantly boost overall performance. As marketing campaigns for both Facebook and email work together, you will get to see an increase in likes and followers on Facebook, more email sign-ups, and more overall engagement and response. How Does Your Business Benefit from Integrating Email and Facebook? The more the subscribers sharing your content on Facebook, the higher will be the open rate and the CTR of emails sent. Furthermore, as Facebook is the channel, the primary purpose of which is to engage, it will further help you drive more email conversions. Email service providers offer statistical data on the sharing of social media emails. Take into account this information to segment your mailing list and elaborate customized content based on user engagement. By offering subscribers the chance to choose the channel they prefer to interact with your brand, you can build a more active, dedicated customer base. Ways to Integrate Facebook and Email Marketing There's really no better time than now to begin managing your advertising spending better by using your email list to deliver better targeting for Facebook ads. Here, we will discuss ways you can use both of them collectively to boost your marketing success. Include Facebook Icon in Emails Adding Facebook icons on your emails is a must. These icons must lead the users directly to your Facebook page. Moreover, it can improve your reputation and brand awareness. Thus, featuring icons and links to your Facebook page in each email campaign is indeed an excellent way to integrate both marketing campaigns. Add Share Buttons It is always more convenient to click a ‘Share’ button rather than forwarding the link to your friends. Either they are blogs, announcement or any other stuff. With the presence of a ‘Share’ button, it is always easy to tweet, like or share. It is one of the tried and tested way of extending your reach. Thus, the more trust you build with the audience, then more probably they would open your emails, click through your landing pages, and convert. Provide an Email to Sign Up on Facebook Just as you would like to promote Facebook through your email, you want to promote email sign-ups and off-Facebook leads on your Facebook page. A lot of people simply will like your Facebook page before they see a place to sign up for email. And that's particularly true when they've found you on Facebook. Announce a Facebook Contest Hosting contests that feature contest apps can result in a significant increase in email sign-ups when properly implemented. There have been a lot of great Facebook contest applications that focus on email sign-ups and off-Facebook leads instead of Facebook likes. It's a brilliant way to motivate your followers to sign up for your email list. Run an Email Campaign to Promote Your Facebook Page An announcement is necessary for every initiative you are going to take, whether it is the creation of a Facebook page or anything else. Users quite often ignore icons or merely don't scroll down to the bottom of the email to see a link to social networks. So, make an announcement of your Facebook page through email and encourage them to follow you. Concluding Note Emails will continue to become even more personal, and Facebook will remain home to millions of users around the world. If you're not integrating the two until now, you're losing out on a massive business opportunity. As a marketer, you're used to set targets. However, most of the time you set micro-goals for particular campaigns, such as planning to hit a certain conversion rate on your most recent promotional email. This time, take a macro approach and set goals to make the most of email marketing campaign with Facebook. Are you looking to start a WordPress blog? It can be rather challenging if you don’t know what things to consider first. Sure enough that you want your resource to be packed full of the best functionality. If you are not tech savvy, this point may also be confusing... via GIPHY Please don’t be scared as our blog post is aimed at helping you out with this. Herein under we will share 5 simple tips to make sure that your WP blog has a comfy set of features for all the urgent needs. In fact, nowadays it has become much easier to launch decent websites with all those free and paid templates available out there. You just go to a reliable marketplace and choose one of the best WordPress themes for blogs. It’s really great that you have already chosen the CMS that will power your blog. We bet you won’t regret about this. WordPress is used by more than 25% of all websites in the world. Mastering WordPress is a piece of cake as you even won’t need to learn any tedious programming or coding. The platform is open source, which means that thousands of developers are building resources, plugins, extensions for it, and improve the CMS in many other ways. Yes, WordPress has a vast ecosystem. It's community of talented and creative wordpress developers, designers and technologists are crafting all the above things that are available for free, which enables you to build an awesome site, say picking out a template from WordPress themes for business. In a word, WordPress gives you the utmost design flexibility, best search engine optimization, tons of tools and plugins to optimize, personalize, and tweak your site’s look and performance. However, starting off can be hard. That’s why we created a kind of brief checklist of the must-have WP blog features. WordPress has numerous features that make it the right choice for most bloggers. This is the reason why so many people love it. But let’s get to the meat. Here are 5 key features to check before purchasing a WP theme for your blog. Design. You can literally do whatever you wish out of a WordPress theme. WordPress has a bunch of free themes out of the box, but you can buy a host of premium themes for nearly $50. A ready-made premium design will bring the look and feel of your website to the next level. If you have the technical knowledge or know someone who has it, you can add all sorts of custom items to your blog using code. Responsive nature and cross-browser compatibility. A responsive website will adjust to any screen resolution of the device it is being displayed at. Cross browser compatible blogs will perform the same perfect in all browsers. This leads to greater UX and enhanced SEO, which is very important for your resource. Search engine optimization. There is no sense in having the most beautiful website design if nobody visits it. WordPress blogs naturally organize your content the way that is optimized for Google’s search engine. That means your posts will get public attention if you follow best SEO practices and produce great content. Shortcodes and widgets. Shortcodes simplify the embedding of media content. You can also use them for post output, elements, grids, lists, tabs, video and audio, Google Map, and much more. If Theme Customizer is available in your WP theme pack, even your kid will cope with editing your page via it. The best thing is that you can view the amendments you’ve done in real time, just using the Preview function for the purpose. Extensive documentation and 24/7 support. Quality WordPress themes have semantically awesome code that explains itself. But you can take a look into neatly packed docs that cover and explain many bases for you. If you still have issues with your WP theme, free expert 24/7 support is always there to solve it. Your turn Of course, this list can be continued. We highlighted only 5 key points to consider if you want your WP blog to have the best functionality. What features do you consider the most essential for a fully functional blog? Please don’t be shy to post your additions in the comments section. Cheers! Can you imagine shoplifting in a store with cameras in place and walking out of it without incidence? That is now a possibility. It's time we say goodbye to checkout counters! After this AI-driven store makes it into mainstream, stores will have an opportunity to eventually phase out checkout counters. By 2017, we have experienced e-store shopping where delivery time remains to be the biggest factor that needs optimization. But its not just online shopping experience that is getting faster but also the brick and mortar outlets that are optimizing for speed-loving, and tech-driven consumers. In our time, the difference between the real and virtual world is getting slim. While the online shopping experience is getting real, the real-world shopping experience is getting virtualized all thanks to Artificial Intelligence. The Autonomous Checkout system We all know how long waiting checkout queues make grocery shopping the most tedious task. But we will not have to wait long for retail stores to adapt to the AI-driven autonomous checkout. Amazon Go is already on its way to launch a new kind of grocery store where no checkout is required. They’re calling it the “Just Walk out” shopping experience for which you need their app on your phone, pick items from their store while the system upgrades its inventory and your virtual cart. A similar prototype is being tested by Standard Cognition that employs a network of cameras to monitor the action of the shopper and then couple machine vision and deep learning to display the items in your virtual cart on your smartphone app (underway). In order to fit the definition of a “convenience store”, the retail biggies are under pressure to create a better shopping experience and autonomous checkout is their ray of hope. The idea appears promising but is not yet free of glitches. What’s a virtual cart? The virtual cart happens to be the software interface for the retail stores planning to limit or recede checkout counters. When you pick up items from a similar store, the sensors recognize the items and add them to your cart against which you will be charged from your account as you walk out of the door. To get a better picture of virtual cart, here’s a glimpse of Amazon Go. While Amazon Go allows the shopper to scan and enter the store before they begin to shop, the Walmart Scan and Go uses a different approach. At Walmart its more of a self-checkout option where you can scan your items right from your phone and pay via the app. Fascinating isn’t it! But so far you will need an employee to verify the receipt on your mobile device. It will take some time before the idea of autonomous checkout gets fully operational. Meanwhile, the futuristic application of AI in retail is rigorously tested. Here are some big questions that caught our attention. Big questions Since the AI feature uses cameras, can it keep up with multiple items withdrawn from the aisle when the surrounding space is heavily crowded? What happens when someone picks an item but places it back at a different position? Can the system identify damage to the products while mishandling? Is it really convenience shopping if we need different apps for each store? So, what do you guys think? Are you excited about the idea of AI backed retail stores? Let us know by sharing your thoughts in the comments section. The convergence of AI into retail is making waves. It offers better customer experience, adds relevance and personality and enables a brand to connect with its audience across all platforms. While businesses are planning to implement Artificial intelligence in the coming years, it’s the retail sector that seems excited about the prospect. Some brands have started to experiment with AI to deliver better customer experience. Others are planning to implement it in the coming years. They realize that ecommerce offers a competitive landscape and the brands that will thrive with success in coming years are the ones that can harness the latest tech. Are you ready to venture towards the future of AI? Let’s check out how some brands have implemented Artificial Intelligence. Amazon adds automation to grocery shopping Leading from the front is amazon when it opened an AI backed grocery store called Amazon Go. The store does not have any checkouts and this seems to be an attempt towards automation. The customers who use this app can have an entire shopping experience without waiting in long checkout queues. Their stores without checkout counters are designed to detect objects customers pick. The sensors work in co-ordination with image recognition and the amazon accounts are charged as soon as you exit the store. While Amazon Go is still recovering from tech glitches, the idea of automated shopping has created acceptability in consumer’s mind. Neiman Marcus accelerates image search This American department store has coupled image search that allows their customers to click pictures of items anywhere and match it to find if any similar product is available in their inventory. It was an excellent approach to enable customer engagement. Besides this Snap, Find, Shop feature, they have used AR in their store that allows shoppers to compare different outfits in a 360 degree view of themselves. Disney adds magic to SKU organization Not surprisingly, Disney is one of those few brands that have integrated Artificial intelligence to organize product SKUs and are on their way to create Artificial neural networks. They have launched an ecommerce site, shopDisney that employs AI and machine learning to organize product categorization and site searches for the user. They get relevant product recommendations that are tailored for a wider audience. Paypal stuns frauds Paypal is one of those brands that are interested in defeating bad guys at the con using artificial intelligence. After several scams targeted Paypal users, they have decided to detect fraud and manage possible risk with 3 types of modern machine learning algorithms. The system identifies purchase patterns by studying thousands of purchases in the past with fraudulent nature. The idea is to identify the difference between a genuine purchase or that from a list of stolen accounts. As ecommerce continues to grow, the issue of theft will continue to linger but Paypal is a working example for retail brands concerned about data security and theft. StarBucks barista goes mainstream Not far behind in the league of brands that experiment with emerging tech is Starbucks. This time, they intend to imbed AI backed voice activated apps from the likes of Siri. The virtual assistant will be a mobile device companion called My Starbucks Barista. It will allow user to place an order by simply tapping a button and talking to the virtual barista. While the order is prepared in the nearby store, you can pick up your drink without waiting in long queues. Lowe’s sci-fi geek The famous home improvement retailer brand known Lowe’s has been testing store mapping robots called LoweBots in some of their locations. They are walking sales guides equipped with natural language processing that allows them to process and respond to general queries such as “where is hardware section?” They also have built-in sensors to detect people standing idle and inquire them if they would require help. Sephora launches beauty advice chatbot Sephora is home to elaborate range of cosmetics and beauty products and the online shoppers are often intimidated by the idea of product search. For instance, a typical product search query could give about 200 results but Sephora experimented with chatbot giving beauty advice and product suggestions to ease their purchase decision. It’s an incredible sales tactic using AI that seems innovative and garners better engagement. Macy’s quick answer bots Macy’s also appears to be ahead of the curve since they adopted Microsoft’s AI to optimize shopping experience and solve customer issues across all channels. The virtual agent answers the general FAQs and make suggestions but if they are unable to give any further answers than the customers are transferred to Live agent for further assistance thereby making the customer experience swift. When it comes to good on-page SEO practices, you might have heard about a lot of stuff that might boggle your mind and leaves you confused. But we have listed some really simple and effective SEO on-page practices that are simple and will surely give you a good heads-up in the search results. So, there are several on-page factors that greatly affects search engine rankings and below we have mentioned the 5 best on-page SEO practices that you need to know. So, let’s get started: 1: Meta Title Tags Now, before you start writing your Meta Tags, make sure that your keyword research is complete, because keyword research is the most important part in on-page optimization, and you have to make sure that you are targeting the right audience through your keywords. So, if you have done your keyword research, then you can proceed further. Title tags are the second most important factor in on-page SEO as it tells search engine and visitors what the page is all about. Title tag must be unique for every page. Code Sample <head> <title>Example Title</title> </head> Best Practices: Suggested format: Your Keyword Base Title | Brand Name Use dash or pipe at the end before your brand name Keep title tags length between 55 to 60 including spaces Do not Repeat Words Avoid using duplicate title tags Avoid using stop words Example of a title tag in SERP: 2: Meta Description Meta Description is the short paragraph or summary of your page. Its content is placed in the head tag of your website. The Meta Description appears under your page’s URL in the search engine results page (SERP). Example of a Meta Description tag in SERP: Code Sample <head> <meta name="description" content="This is an example of a meta description. That show up in search results."> </head> Best Practices: Use your most important keywords in the Meta description. Often search engines will highlight in bold where it finds the search query on SERP 300 characters is the recommended length, including spaces Avoid using duplicate meta descriptions Do not use quotes or non-alphanumeric characters (Google cuts off the description) 3: URL URL or Uniform Resource Locator is human-readable text that was designed to replace the numbers (IP addresses). Example of a URL in SERP: Best Practices: Recommended Format: http://www.example.com/category-keyword/subcategory-keyword/primary-keyword Use Keyword in URL Use 80 to 90 characters or try to keep them as short as possible, because research shows that shorter URLs have a higher click-through-rate (CTR) 4: Content with Targeted Keywords Your page’s content must follow the guidelines laid down by Google. It’s essential that your content is unique and informative for the users and you have to make sure that your content must not repeat in your other pages or is copied from other websites because plagiarism can lead to a serious penalty by Google. Best Practices: Create unique and relevant content Use keywords in your content but make sure do not stuff keywords Use internal Linking Avoid repeating content 5: Internal Page Linking Internal Links are hyperlinks that lead to other pages in the same domain. In simple words, internal linking is when you link your own website pages in your content. Internal linking is an important part of on-page SEO because it provides your audience with further reading options and tells the search engines that the page is relevant for that keyword phrases too. Best Practices: Select good anchor text (keywords) rather than Click here. Use links that are natural for the reader. So, we hope that by optimizing your web pages on these parameters, you can surely boost your search engine rankings. If you have any questions, feedback or suggestions, you can comment in the comment sections below: In essence, the human existence can be divided into 5 eras. The hunters and gatherers age that lasted for millions of years, the agricultural age lasted for thousands of years, the industrial age lasted for hundreds of years and then the information age lasted for a few decades. But today we are entering the augmented age - an epitome of human endeavor. We don’t know if AI is going to scare us or prepare us for the future. But there are people who can give us a glimpse of how artificial intelligence is going to affect our lives and if there is any escape from it? Let's sneak a look at some enlightening sessions in TED Talks covering the topic of Artificial Intelligence . What AI is and isn’t To be honest, we know very little about what AI is and what its not. This discussion brings clarity about artificial intelligence. It points out that computers can process more data than humans ever could, so they can be utilized for repetitive and tedious task. But that’s old news. An interesting aspect under debate these days is possibility of these systems over-riding human smartness. Now the computers are super smart because they can find their own rules through deep learning. It is to say that the computer programs have a brain of their own and they learn through patterns which closely emulate human thinking. Get a glimpse of how systems learn and tend to exceed human agility and precision. Machine intelligence makes human morals more important The machines can now be programmed to judge human emotions from their expressions. We are in a world where software engineers are enabling all sorts of computations and decisions. They can build driverless cars that can decide who they can run over. Also, they are building machines and weapons that can kill people at war. This means we have more ethical concerns with artificial intelligence. She elaborates how machine learning is different from traditional programming and how the later needs to be fed a lot of structured data and the system learns by churning this data to identify patterns. Learn how she explains the importance of human morals in an era of post machine intelligence. https://www.ted.com/talks/zeynep_tufekci_machine_intelligence_makes_human_morals_more_important How I am fighting bias in algorithms Joy Buolamwini takes us on an interesting journey of discovery she made while working with a facial recognition software. She points out that the software fails to detect her face because whoever coded that algorithm didn’t work with a diverse data set including a broad range of skin tones. The glitch wasn’t serious as long as it was used in studies but when facial recognition software is used in criminal investigations, this could be a serious problem. Find out how she highlights a crucial issue and gave suggestions to counter bias in algorithms. How AI can bring on a second Industrial Revolution "The actual path of a raindrop as it goes down the valley is unpredictable, but the general direction is inevitable," - Kevin Kelly Well yes the general direction is known and inevitable, and likewise the embracing of AI backed systems by humanity is bound to happen. However, we need to reason in order to understand how Artificial Intelligence must be developed and adopted. Again like other visionaries, he also agrees that our creation is going to outsmart us. Are we prepared to deal with it. Let's explore what he says about the second Industrial Revolution. https://www.ted.com/talks/kevin_kelly_how_ai_can_bring_on_a_second_industrial_revolution#t-397831 The incredible inventions of intuitive AI Maurice Conti begins by elaborating how humans are unconsciously living the life of a cyborg-machine in a human’s body. Think about it, we already use our cell phones for long-term memory and storage. So by the looks of it, the augmented age has already began. Take a tour of the Augmented Age with futurist Maurice Conti and preview a time when robots and humans will work side-by-side to accomplish things neither could do alone. https://www.ted.com/talks/maurice_conti_the_incredible_inventions_of_intuitive_ai#t-63055 How computers can learn to be creative Blaise Agüera Arcas is a principal scientist at Google who works with deep neural networks for machine perception and distributed learning. In this fascinating lecture, he displays how the function of neural networks can now be emulated by machines. The systems can recognize images like our ocular system and maps an image that it can reproduce in reality. As he rightly points out: "Perception and creativity are very intimately connected, any creature, any being that is able to do perceptual acts is also able to create." https://www.ted.com/talks/blaise_aguera_y_arcas_how_computers_are_learning_to_be_creative#t-95473 The post-modern world has witnessed certain jobs vanish. The fear and hysteria around Ai is quite natural. In the world led by post-AI revolution, almost 47% of US jobs are exposed to automation. When we welcomed Atms and cash points without apprehension, the automation and ease of operation made us ignore the amount of jobs it took. Same was true for industrial revolution. That was a conscious choice and there was a fair amount of comprehension involved. It was not a flashy decision. Our industry paved its way towards industrial automation. Today, yet again we are on the brink of another major revolution. This time, it will cost the jobs from almost all sectors. From self-driving cars to driverless flying taxis, we are about to enter a time much like the futuristic world predicted in 1899 by French Artist, Jean-Marc Côté that got published on post cards. The robots of today’s world are more than just assists. So, let’s get to the pressing question, Is your job about to disappear? Check out some of the top jobs that have a high likelihood of employing robots and automation. Customer support specialists Not surprisingly, the future of CSRs appears to be in jeopardy. With Facebook messenger chatbots gaining traction and acceptability among the customers, there is a likelihood that more companies will rely on automation. With Ai-driven chatbots answering support questions for customers, and effectively engaging them, the likelihood of this job getting replaced is grows incrementally. Waiters and service crew While some restaurants across the world are testing the efficiacy of robots as waiters, others are trying to induce a culture that induces their acceptance. However, McDonald’s aims to build a fast food chain fully operated by robots. This will limit the number of human employees to a few maintenance workers. It is indeed a cheaper and faster alternative than actually training human employees and this fact is agreed by other executives in the food service industry. Another aspect of this kind of automation is going to result in loss of jobs as fast food chains will compete to gain competitive edge. Courier delivery persons One of the few things to replace humans are drones. No matter how much we talk about their augmentative role, the reality seems to contradict all those claims. Drones were initially deployed to remote areas where human access was difficult. Today however drones have already started to replace courier delivery guys. Some of the major courier service providers might limit the number of riders but this replacement is expected to grow at 5% by 2024. Although the displacement of courier delivery persons is slow, it is certainly going to have an impact. Some of the above-mentioned affects of artificial intelligence are prolific and long-term and it is expected to improve customer experience and convenience, the two, key metrics all brands are aiming for. Obviously in this situation, it would be foolish of businesses not to opt for advanced system that saves them money. The biggest challenge yet opportunity in e-commerce is constant change. With the rise of Ai driven chatbots, we have witnessed a major shift in the way businesses think about conversational commerce. All entrepreneurs seem excited about the convergence of mobile messaging apps and advances in artificial intelligence. It allows various brands to communicate more effectively with its customers and establish an omni-channel presence through chatbots at reduced costs. The idea is both promising and implementable but is it workable in an environment where customers want to interact with real humans. They’re certainly reassessing their priority. But can bots overcome personalization issues? Well that’s exactly where AI comes into play. Currently, tech startups are testing chatbots boosted with machine learning, natural language processing to offer sales and customer support. In the league of good bots (crawlers, transactional bots, informational bots) vs bad bots(hackers, scarpers, spammers, impersonators), chatbots have developed a personality similar to that of a human. They have seen at least 4 generations of evolution starting from a rudimentary FAQ bot to a sophisticated AI-driven bot that can serve all aspects of conversational commerce by delivering convenience and personalization. Now these bots have already started to improve an online shopper's experience. In fact, more shoppers enjoy their interaction with chatbots that can address their queries and make recommendations. At the same time, entrepreneurs and startups are searching for competitive chatbots to integrate in their business for better engagement and customer retention. Here's how these bots can be categorized. Chatbot evolution: Breaking down the generations Generation 1: bots answering FAQ Generation 2: read my mind bots Generation 3: Ai driven sophisticated interaction Generation 4: advanced voice/image recognition Role in conversational commerce When e-commerce became a sensation, every brand wanted to make sure they catch up to the idea. Eventually, they were also the first to experiment with chatbots. Apple’s Siri, Amazon’s Alexa and Google Assistant soon became the virtual assistants that revolutionized the way consumers interact with brands. Some interesting and revolutionary ideas came forth as brands joined the bandwagon. They have added their bit of creativity in both operational nature and naming of the bots. Take a look at some of past year's chatbots: The world of Artificial intelligence is full of mystery and misconception that spreads faster than reality. Most of the silly notions suggesting AI will outpace human intelligence are based on human fear rather than reason. And not surprisingly, the people who are clueless about the pros of machine learning and deep learning neural nets often envision the apocalyptic images from iRobot in their minds. In reality Ai is taking work that has been automated in the past in order to improve results. Well its time to do some myth busting about some prominent misconceptions on AI because there is a clear difference between perceptions and reality. Emerging and established brands have a special advantage to influence consumers via mobile. Yet mobile advertising appears to be in its infancy. While there are various obstacles to overcome before mobile marketing goes mainstream, there are certain brands that have taken a leap. Participating in offline using QR codes One of top tactics reinforced by retailers aim to bridge the gap between offline retail store and the online available digital content. The adoption for QR codes is rapidly improving for smartphone owners as it commands less commitment from the customers in comparison to SMS. Nike free ID An interesting collaboration between Nike and WeChat resulted in a QR campaign. This campaign invites the user to scan a QR code to begin following Nike via an app. They have share a colorful image via the app and then the user gets a reply with the customized shoe that closely matches the color of the photo they shared. It was an interesting engagement campaign that generated 30,000 submissions in one month. Check-in and location-based marketing Location based marketing tactics are key elements for people who like to brag about their brand loyalty to their friends and in social networking circles. The central idea here is to drive customers who are brands loyals. The brand can reward them in return for check-ins. Some customers like tagging other friends under it increasing a brand’s chances of exposure. Zarraffa’s Coffee complimentary upsize It was a smart way to motivate customer who weren’t necessarily aiming for an upsize. All you had to do was show a staff member a check- in into their location from their device to get a complimentary upsized coffee. Augmented reality AR combines real landscape with virtual objects via your cell phone camera and GPS systems. With the help of software generated graphics blended with real time background, a whole new augmented experience can be created. Not surprisingly, marketers are keen keep to leverage augmented reality to presented engagement opportunities for the brand. Let’s explore how McDonalds applied this arsenal of mobile marketing. If you are planning to start a business, want to shift an existing business online or feel like updating your current website. All you need is a website builder which gives your brand a professional-looking website and gives it an online presence. Everybody wants to save money and so they find ways for it. So instead of spending money on the developers, the investor goes for website builder options. As the ideal e-commerce website builder can let you develop a great online store and work as a platform to handle all your different sales channels and orders. So, What Is a Website Builder? A website builder is a software which gives you access to create, recreate or customize a website online. They offer various customization choices, where you need to look for the one which needs your business requirements. Above all, it doesn’t reside on your local computer rather on a web server. Ecommerce website builders have made website designing a relief. Isn’t it? Top Ecommerce Website Builders Listed down are the 10 best e-commerce website builder options reviewed for 2019 1. Shopify Ecommerce Solution Shopify is one of the most popular e-commerce web builders and has become the ultimate choice of some top-notch brands. Although, Shopify is expensive as compared to other builders yet it has catered a huge market. It offers vigorous features which grab the attention of online business executives. With Shopify, you have access to design your website the way you want because it offers hundreds of templates. In addition, you can custom design a theme meeting your own expectations and a level of satisfaction without any prohibitions of HTML and CSS. Apart from that, it also facilitates the creation of apps in handy ways. It consists of a system that can help you monitor customer information. It keeps a record of information on customers, their purchases, giving you the idea of what exactly your customers need. Shopify offers plugins, integrated payments, mobile support and most importantly multiple platforms for online selling. It is like a one-stop-shop for business owners. 2. Weebly Weebly is an easy to use website builder. It involves a uniquely designed page builder that enables you to edit your website without having any coding abilities. All the designs available can be edited with its live page editor feature. It has been recently bought by Square who have made efforts to make improvements in this e-commerce platform. Weebly makes sure that they provide value for your money. It is a comprehensively hosted platform, where you don't need to install or manage any software. They're going to take care of hosting your website and handling all the software that operates on the backend. Moreover, it uses the standard built-in support for e-commerce. This enables you to readily develop an online store and start selling. Weebly facilitates you with built-in features for sliders, contact forms, galleries and more which allows you to easily add features to your website without the hassle of setup processes. This is the reason why it is rated among the top website builders for beginners. 3. Wix eCommerce Wix has made web designing an easy job to do. It does not require any coding for the formation of an ideal website. Wix offers a wide range of rich features for your website design within economical prices. Specifically suited for e-commerce webpages, Wix provides dynamic features like inventory management, cost calculation widgets, social media integration tools, and much more. With highly genius SEO tools, one can get customers by getting featured on search engine results. Also, it has some marketing-oriented features like coupons management and newsletters. Wix can prove to be an ideal web builder for e-commerce owners who gets to operate physical locations. These online store plug-ins necessitate you with all the variety of tools that are needed to ace your business online. Being superlatively affordable, it is also mobile compatible. What else do you need? 4. Square Space Square Space is another website building company which was established back in 2004. It’s a good space for the beginners of web design. Square Space provides a compelling and eye-catching site design to the customers. Giving additional capability to your website, it makes web design super easy where you do not have to encounter any technical or coding problem. It also consists of panels which give you access to put your ideas ideally into motion without bothering about complicated coding. Also, you’re allowed to sell or market anything and get overflowing clients from the beginning- all hail Square Space SEO options which automatically creates SEO options for your web page. Besides offering the value services, it’s affordable than the competitors yet the best platform for e-commerce websites that can take your business to the next level. 5. Volusion It's a leading e-commerce platform in 2019 that helps host your online storefront. If you are willing to start your own store but are anonymous to web hosting and managing website yourself, Volusion has multiple solutions for you. You can get innovative with your own created designs. It is supreme choice for both tech-savvies and traders who are a foreigner to running and operating online businesses. Volusion is mobile friendly and very responsive. The cherry on the top, they do not have any transaction fees currently unless you are taking their monthly plan. It is an excellent solution for individuals who wish to set up a storefront and selling online. Since, it offers facilities like cutting down your responsibilities of hosting your web page, maintaining its update and security, you get the opportunity to focus on other aspects of magnifying your business. Volusion, without any doubt, the best solution for improving focus in all areas of e-commerce. 6. Big E-Commerce Online Store Builder Big e-commerce store offers vast variety of e-commerce solutions. Big E-commerce is particularly known for the marketing tools it offers, making it convenient for individuals to promote their web sites. Also, it can develop some remarkable web sites that are comprehensive and offers various visuals that prove to be fascinating for many users. They have a huge number of paid layouts that fills the necessities of all size businesses. Furthermore, it has the various expansible option, you can always add products and services with the help of the control panel to generate new pages and product listings. Apart from providing a multitude of versatile marketing tools, various integrated payments are supported on BigCommerce sites. They also have a 15 days trial to give you the idea of how it actually works. BigCommerce is quite functional for big as well as small businesses who are looking for a variable e-commerce platform. However, it works best for those who have enough finances because the cost of BigCommerce is high and can get more if you wish to purchase intricate layouts. 7. Duda By default, Duda is best for agencies and even hosting businesses, but you can also take online stores to fruition. Its main focus is on white-labeling and reselling web designs, not on creating and developing a website. In its collection of pre-designed templates, you will explore a variety of materials for different stores. And there is an additional blank layout that provides you the extra freedom you are looking for. In a short span of time, you can be ready and able to go live and begin selling your products. Also, it doesn't really matter what your eCommerce website is all about, Duda is prepared to work for all types of websites. As it implies all modern web trends and technology rules, all your web pages will be compatible with mobile devices, cross-browser compatible and incredibly fast to load. All this assures you that Duda is an incredibly versatile and agile web builder with everything you need, to sort out your web presence quickly. 8. Jimdo Jimdo is a German-based website builder. In the recent past, it has become one of the world's leading website builders because of its well thought out features, such as the Jimdo online store. It utilizes the power of AI to offer a highly customized website in just three minutes without the understanding of coding. They enable website development from beginning to end using their iOS and Android apps. It can allow you to optimize your website for search engines (SEO). All the templates available are fully responsive and well-displayed on desktop and mobile devices. Even their free plan is comparatively powerful, offering features such as password protection and a small e-commerce website with up to 5 products. 9. GoDaddy GoDaddy is one of the top-notch hosting companies around, offering their own website builder. Just like Wix, it is simple to navigate and use. It facilitates you with a great number of themes, all of which appear to work with their drag and drop builder. They're all categorized according to the type of website you want to have. Furthermore, it includes an integrated photo library with professional pictures from Getty Photography that you want to use on your website. You can also upload your own pictures and create an image gallery. E-commerce is fully supported by many different payment methods, and there is also a useful scheduling feature. GoDaddy provides a one-month free trial, so you can have an idea if this platform meets the needs of your business. 10. WordPress with WooCommerce WooCommerce is a different kind of platform compared to the ones we have discussed above. It is a self-hosted plan which gives you complete control on your e-commerce website without any subscription fees. It offers multiple themes with variations for your website that can be customized. Although it is not a drag-and-drop website builder, you can always customize the look and feel of your website. WooCommerce requires WordPress hosting to function. You can get actually started with it for free. but you have to purchase a domain name and set up web hosting. While most brands focus on effective and proven strategies for mobile marketing, they often evade the possibility of what not to do. Usually mobile marketing is a challenging mix of ideas that requires marketers to comprehend consumer behavior and psychology, and the overall dynamics of mobile marketing. Yet, a crucial part often missing from their strategy is how to navigate through the unanticipated challenges. The idea of mobile campaigns gone wrong often gets the media frenzy but here are some key problem areas that marketers need to address if they are to succeed in the world of mobile. Launching a mobile campaign without a mobile optimized site Mobile marketing without a mobile optimized website is like a river rafting without a raft. That’s right, you know that you are not going to make it alive and it’s not fun either. We all know mobile is here to stay. So, it’s about time marketers start to think about mobile users. Through various campaigns, users are directed to flash website that isn’t optimized for mobile. Obviously, this does more harm than good. Ignoring where customers are stuck Besides studying the consumer journey in ecommerce, marketers have to make the path as frictionless as possible. Ignoring where the consumer gets stuck is the biggest mistake on the end of rookie marketers. The steps towards conversion should be minimized since the mobile user has even less attention span. Technically the people behind mobile and desktop traffic tend to be the same people but the behavior changes across different devices. Collecting and analyzing the in-app metrics can spot grey areas. Failure to personalize The biggest hurdle to the personalization in mobile marketing campaigns is the lack of confidence. Only 24% marketers say they attempt to personalize mobile experience. If this is true then retailers and business owners are missing out on opportunities for revenue generation. Usually this happens due to the absence of adaptive pages, special search functionalities, and product recommendations. Personalization makes it much easier for shoppers to find what they are looking for in this mobile world, which is half the battle for visitors. Ignoring data opportunities It so happens that we are still on the brink of realization of potential mobile marketing. Perhaps it will take more time for marketers to realize how mobile activity has an effect on consumers. For now, there seems to be a disconnect. Mobile marketing data received from consumer search patterns and buying behavior is marketers gold that is underutilized so far. Various research models now let marketers quantify the effect of their marketing spend via mobile. Mobile users today have already outweighed desktop users. Perhaps you are already reading this on a mobile device. 4 out of 5 customers use smartphones to shop. Moreover, about 70% of mobile searches lead to online action within an hour. Yet we notice a disconnect when it comes to mobile marketing. Are marketers unable to comprehend the statistics? Or is it the execution of strategies that needs better planning? But we can say this for sure that there is still a plethora of unexplored avenues for mobile marketers. No longer an option Going mobile is not an option anymore. It has become the new staple now. in some ways mobile marketing is similar to traditional modes but there are also some innovative modes that truly set it apart. For instance QR codes, app-based marketing, text messages and automated calls are some of the top ways to leverage mobile marketing. It allows brands to directly connect with consumers through their devices at a specific location and in a time-sensitive manner. Dynamic world of mobile Mobile has changed the whole landscape of marketing and influenced the psychographics and consumer purchase behavior in less than a decade. But marketers can't stay spontaneous, they have to keep up with the latest developments and research to ensure mobile marketing success. In order to stay ahead of their competitors, they have to understand the subtle differences between today's ecommerce consumer and comprehend the dynamic world of mobile. For retailers and business owners, mobile marketing can be a deal breaker. The statistics prove that mobile usage is integrated into every system and its hard to imagine marketing without mobile. Yet we tend to miss some of the essential statistics. let's take a look to comprehend the unexplored avenues of marketing. Managed Services—A Review It refers to a model for IT support in which a company outsources strategic IT functions to a Managed Services Provider (MSP), who is tasked with managing the resources, tools, and procedures used to perform both projects and continuing operations. In a managed service model, the managed service provider is responsible for the functionality of the IT service and paraphernalia, with the customer generally paying a monthly fee for delivery of the service. An effective managed services model allows a customer to benefit from expectable pricing and the capacity to concentrate on key business fears instead of IT-related tasks. A managed services provider offers distant monitoring and organization that is often a rudimentary, foundational service. With the arrival of cloud computing, managed IT services have also grown to include cloud services. For example, service providers are likely to focus on infrastructure as a service, providing managed public cloud services together with cloud providers such as Amazon Web Services (AWS), Google and Microsoft. Like any pricing model, one needs to look for the following risks related to this model, ensuring that they are dealt with adequately. The key risks include: a) Capacity to define and monitor service levels - Since the model hugely depends on service levels, companies must have the ability to produce and monitor these service levels. Incapacity of an organization to screen service level may lead to a vendor overpricing due to lack of transparency. b) Single vendor reliance - Once a vendor is entrenched in the organization, they may be unwilling to increase the scope. Why Make the Switch? While both models are feasible options for increasing IT support, staff augmentation provides cutting-edge improvement and a growing drive to cut costs and enhance operational efficiencies through technological innovation. This typically converts into an increasing number of IT projects, where a business’s success or failure can often depend on the capacity to complete these projects on time, within budget, and to specification. Developing in-house competences to carry out these projects can be an expensive and dicey undertaking, especially when the IT needs of an organization are continually changing. Furthermore, in today’s business world where lagging behind the IT innovation curve can be catastrophic, only a handful companies have static IT needs. When Is It Time to Switch? Given the array of advantages that growing businesses can gain from switching to staff augmentation, the question arises about the perfect time they should make the switch. When Does an Organization Need Staff Augmentation? Staff augmentation is a novel concept for large- and medium-sized organizations because in it an organization prefers not to hire a full-time employee. Reasons may include, among other things, cost limitations, the immediate requirement of staff, or the length of the project that barely justifies hiring a full-time employee. Cost Business is about making money, which can be done by obtaining better income, or by reducing overhead expenses. Staff augmentation can easily perform both the jobs. A lot of money and time are spent finding the right employee when a company needs additional help. If that employee is only needed temporarily, or quits, that process must start from scratch. Keeping in-house employees trained and up-to-date on the latest technology can also add up swiftly. Full-time employees can be very expensive, not to mention the risks and obligations related to full-time counterparts. Staff augmentation offers companies the opportunity to pick and choose the specific skills and services needed for their company. If one consultant lacks the skills you need, then you can easily find another that does. You pay for the demanded skill without having to pay for the overhead of hiring or training. Overhead is further reduced as you only pay for the mandatory skills when you need them. Staff augmentation should be seriously considered if a company finds that employees are striving to achieve the work it needs. Hiring the exact skill needed can confirm that a company’s project can reach its milestones. Staff augmentation, while providing a blueprint to accelerate projects, enables employees to zero in on other serious assignments in a bid to grow and earn higher revenue. Ability to Start Projects Sooner Executives often if a certain individual is the right resource for the job, whether s/he can do the job, or if they can be trained to do the job. However, the point whether the person in question can learn to do the job holds little significance; what’s important is how long an organization can wait. Staff augmentation allows a company to get the resources it needs immediately. This is significant if a company is not able to maintain an adequate workforce to achieve regular workloads, or a large project needs to be initiated. The capacity to start projects sooner may be just the advantage a company needs to win the speed to market race. Length of Project More often than not, a company does not need a long-term employee. For instance, many IT tasks, such as upgrading services, are barely needed on a permanent basis. Another case is organizations outsourcing help to ensure they meet guidelines and other regulatory compliance efforts. While such tasks are significant, they may not be needed on a permanent basis. Flexible Workforce Companies may need extra resources for a large forthcoming project and for this they immediate help. Huge resources can be spent finding and hiring an employee with the right skills, which this can take weeks, if not months, resulting in delays or missing out on business deals. According to a report, best practice companies in both the US and Europe evaluate they are overspending by 10% and underperforming by 10% due to their inability to have a fully nimble and flexible workforce. Companies must not miss out on that latent profit by not having the resources they need, when they need them. Using an Augmented Staff lets companies rapidly up or downscale their workforce based on the needs of the project. Conclusion Given the rise in cost pressure in today’s fickle marketplace, more companies are turning to staff augmentation to control expenses, improve performance, and regain focus on their core capabilities. Nevertheless, the switch from managed services to staff augmentation can only be fruitful if careful attention is given to finding the right partner. While previously managed services would dominate staff augmentation for one reason or another, in today’s ever-changing modern business world, staff augmentation is the new name of the game. We have officially entered the phase of m-commerce in which consumers not only use it as a shopping tool but also as a search portal, a personal advisor and a 24/7 shopping partner. Why is shopping through mobile becoming a norm? Perhaps because the users of mobile outweigh the users of a toothbrush. Or because we have actually becomes cyborgs that store part of their memory in an extended device. As a result majority of the shoppers today are using their smartphones to buy clothing and other fashion accessories. This is not a real surprise. M-commerce already enjoys one-third of e-commerce sales (34 percent). In the past few years we have witnessed a fundamental shift in purchase behavior of consumer. 87% of millennials admit that a cellphone never leaves their side. Their choices and purchase preferences are shaped through the searches they come across. Of course this opens up a window of opportunity for marketers. So, without further ado let’s delve into some ways to leverage mobile marketing for fashion industry. Build a personalized experience It all started from Amazon when it started recommending products to its customers based on their past purchases and search history. That is how they raised the bar for personalization. Today retailers compete with each other to offer better personalized experience for its consumer. For instance EyeFitU is a fashion sizing platform that suggests to its users sizing recommendations, based on their personal measurements. Appeal to generation Z The tech-driven generation that consumes snapchat and Instagram at breakfast is fast in catching latest fashion trends. In order to appeal to them, marketers need to know where to find them and how to connect with them. Also value their opinion when they share a review about a product or service. The live video experiences that they share tend to resonate among post millennials. The bottom line is in order to make sense to generation Z, the marketing messages must be directed to the platforms that they are addicted to. Make mobile app experience augmented Sephora is a leading fashion and cosmetics brand that did a fine job by aiding customers in their in-store shopping. The app includes some beacon powered features that offers a digital experience by offering augmented reality features. Sephora has indeed considered their digital-savvy customers to create options of scanning products and the makeup application tips the app suggests when you take a selfie. It is indeed an experience that promotes customer engagement and turns them into brand loyal. Scan-to-shop directly from mobile Loreal introduced an app that used the scan-to-shop technology. In order to promote consumers to use this feature, they were allowed to scan products in magazine ads or in-store. This simplified shopping through mobile employs image recognition technology that various retailers can implement for better engagement. While making resource management decisions may not be as easy as falling off a log, some choices have yet to be made in this regard. The objective of the exercise is to choose a model that is affordable for the company and will yield the best results for capacity planning and project management planning. What’s the difference between these two models and how do you determine the best fit for you? Here, we will draw a comparison between the two leading resource management models: headcount and Full-Time Equivalent (FTE). Headcount vs FTE While selecting and assigning resources for a project, an organization must think about the product it has to deliver, its budget, and how it can get the highest ROI. Headcount and FTE offer two disparate models for managing the time and cost of venture resources. Headcount This model calculates each person, in one role, working the full amount of time assigned for a role (supposedly 40 hours per week). Headcount is a perfect model for HR-related planning and scaling an organization, while companies that use headcount are focused on ensuring they have people in place to perform a general organizational plan. Typically, it seeks to fill roles, but doesn’t come down to aligning people with particular skills to project tasks. Eventually, headcount is more demanding for project planning, because having an individual in a role does not ensure they can or should be the only resource for a wide range of tasks. How to carry out headcount planning Headcount planning is a hugely strategic exercise that seeks to address the goals, objectives, and developments a business undergoes. There are numerous steps included in planning the workforce, such as defining your company strategy and outlining business goals and changes within industry with a potential impact on how a company will need to design and grow its workforce. Defining performance metrics to ascertain if you are employing teams with people with skills that can meet existing goals also constitutes part of headcount planning. Another key element of the entire exercise is to analyze your existing workforce and recognize strategic loopholes while using gap analysis findings to formulate a recruitment strategy. What are the benefits of headcount planning? One of the key benefits of headcount planning is that a company’s human resource department can align its workforce talent with the organizational strategies and objectives. In addition, loopholes in the workforce can be recognized, which helps focus on hiring efforts. Headcount planning also informs long-term workforce planning while creating performance goals against company metrics. Headcount planning glitches While headcount planning can help a company build and scale its staff, it also entails a number of risks. The likelihood of not recognizing high-priority skills may compel a team to bring on supplementary resources, adversely affecting the budget. It is nearly impossible to plan for the peaks and troughs of business needs, which leads to overstaffing and understaffing during the year. There is a likely disconnect in why and how headcount is used. The business (HR) is focused on the model as a tactical tool, while project teams and process owners have to take a closer look at what is needed in reality. How to calculate FTE An FTE is the number of hours worked to equal one full-time resource. The model is used to translate the hours worked by part-timers or servicers into the equivalent of a full-timer. There are a number of ways for counting an organization’s FTE requirements, but it’s eventually simple division that is based on your structure. If your organization’s workweek is 50 hours, and you need a technical writer on your project team for 25 hours per week, divide 25/50. The answer, 0.5, is the FTE for that technical writer role. This formula can be applied using your total number of project hours, or you can really reduce your burden by using a volume management tool. What are the benefits of using the FTE model? If you find project priorities fluctuating, you can fine-tune your resources as required without pulling a full-time person away from larger obligations. FTE offers visibility into the consequences of responding to those fluctuating priorities, such as whether or not you need to hire someone new because the number of FTE doesn’t match the number of hours needed to work each week. You can involve resources that specialize in particular fields, and you don’t want to waste a full-time person because you need to overlap resources by hiring a temporary individual with a particular set of services. It offers transparency for when you need to hire part-time resources for short-term ventures. FTE planning glitches While resource needs may be realistically fulfilled by FTE, project management issues can disrupt the effort. headcount. An organization’s resource budget may lack funding, restricting its capacity to bring on the FTEs is the need of the hour. Another problem is the overall project hours that may be under- or overestimated. Conclusion Experts believe that both headcount and FTE have their own pros and cons, it’s up to an organization to decide which one of them suits it given its particular resource management needs. However, an organization may be in a better position to decide which model is more affordable and produces the best results for capacity planning and project management planning. Despite being user engaging, not every mobile application has the tendency to get viral. It’s no longer a matter of luck. These days, you have to put your heart and soul in promoting the app as well. It has become more of a necessity to stay ahead in business. Before moving on to the science, let’s first observe the typical way of sharing an app. This iteration or sharing pattern would continue and will give a good start to promotion efforts. In case, there is a weak link, the chain breaks. It usually happens if the user did not find the promised value in the app. Plan for virality For starters, every app should be well designed and easily sharable for all users. In some cases, sharing of an app has to be coupled to certain rewards. It has been tested through gaming apps that when you share your actions across social networks, there is a higher likelihood of friends catching up with the trend. Upon inviting other friends to play, the user gets rewarded with some bonus points. A similar approach can be used whereby users can be rewarded upon sharing app in their circles. However, app store optimization is the foundation of user acquisition strategy. It involves selecting the right keywords, creating app screenshots for user previews and providing the relevant description of the app to target the relevant audience. The next stage is to introduce paid and viral tactics in order to boost the app acquisition. Another integral part of promoting an app requires development of web presence outside the app store as well. This is achieved by creating a landing page optimized for mobile. App virality in a nutshell But hold on, is your app passing these 4 criteria It has value to share It allows users to share and for friends to join The users should be rewarded for sharing and incentives must be provided for coming back As more people use the app, more value should be created for them With that known, its also important to note that it takes some time for the customer to try the app and share it in their circle. The challenge is to reduce this time and hence comes the science. Optimize to make it effortless An ideal app never confuses the user with complicated design but facilitates them with easy functionality. Also, the steps to get the app downloaded should be simple and not time consuming. In order to create a flow in your app, make its sharing effortless. Allow users to have one-click sign in option so that they can get registered effortlessly. A dedicated login, on the other hand is time-consuming and makes the user lose interest. Use referrals Even in the digital world, the one thing that remains constant is the general trust in recommendations. 92% of people say they trust recommendations from friends and family, and word of mouth still influences 50% of all purchase decisions. To date, referrals remain the most powerful form of app marketing. Gamification is the use of game elements and game thinking in non-game environments to increase engagement and improve better targeting. There is more to it than what has been explored so far. Gamification is still young and evolving field so marketers will present it as game elements but not full games. As for game thinking, it usually skips the game technique but involves the idea behind games. The idea is executed and shared in commercial and non-game environments to improve customer metrics such as target audience behavior and engagement. Gamification framework Define business goals – How can gamification benefit the business? Outline target behaviour – What behaviour is expected of players and what gets rewarded? Describe the players – What is the target audience? Devise the activity loops – What incentives can we offer to make sure the players keep playing? Don’t forget the fun – What’s the fun element in the gamified system? Deploy the appropriate tools – What elements from the Gamification can be used to design the systems. Gamification vs playful design Often confused with a playful design or actual games, gamification lies somewhere in between. It cannot offer a whole gaming experience but some of its elements. Gamification offers a clear and specific goal to the audience, and has restrictions and rules in place to make the experience game-like. Upon the completion of certain goals, the user gets rewarded. As a result, the user is motivated to keep going whereas, playful design lacks a specific goal. For instance, the design of piano stairs by Volkswagon is an example of playful design. Gamification focuses on gameful design incorporating the elements of gaming. In order to get a better understanding of its origin, let's explore the world of gamification as elaborated by the pros in the industry. Games or playful learning is probably never associated with business or anything serious but in today's world that idea seems to be defeated. Moving on, here's a simple breakdown of gamification. In most cases, design focuses on aesthetics or functionality but gamification is a rare instance where design places emphasis on human motivation. At the end of the day, your winning makes no difference if you have no one to share it with. By creating gamified user-experiences, marketers can be contributing to more than just a brand. Essentially, the idea is to establish better engagement with the audience while attending to and solving their problems. There is a reason why gamification became effective. It causes motivation in the user and engages them like no other campaign. Here's an interesting thought. Staff augmentation and managed services are the two most popular approaches of obtaining technical expertise required for complex software projects. But which one is better for your company? Staff Augmentation It brings in the temporary workforce with the help of a third-party agency to support particular project needs. It offers a cost-effective solution. It fills special roles with skilled talent. It retains your control on the project. It helps meet strict deadlines. Builds a stronger team in the long run. Managed Services Managed services help outsource certain tasks to a third party with the expertise and experience to carry out the project. It offers convenient-subscription-based pricing. Work is carried out by skilled professionals. No infrastructure or maintenance costs. It meets compliance and security standards. It’s easily scalable based on project demands. Which is a better option to meet a company’s software project demands? Staff Augmentation offers companies an economical solution with a limited financial plan. It’s a perfect model for short-term projects with the requirement of fewer resources. Managed Services offers companies a long-term solution with multiple projects. It’s a perfect engagement to gain professional expertise with assured security. Often touted as the loyalty program on steroids, gamification is the use of game techniques to engage the customers. It is not about playing games per se, but adding motivational elements within a system to reward and incentivize the user each time upon completing a set task. Gamification is also used interchangeably with game thinking. “Game thinking is the use of games and game-like approaches to solve problems and create better experiences”. Now these game-like approaches can be applied to almost any industry or business to engage or even convert relevant audience. In this article, we will touch upon gamification tools and explore game thinking applications. More than just gamification The upcoming presentation will elaborate how gamification is a universe that is part of a bigger universe called game thinking. So, the next time you see some one use gamification and game thinking interchangeably, just show them this slide deck. Game Thinking: More than just Gamification from Andrzej Marczewski Gamification and game thinking It applies teaching knowledge, skills & abilities using a self- contained game. Also involves the use of game-based techniques to engage people, motivate action promote learning & solve problems. Take a look at the presentation to explore the difference between the key terms. Gamification and Game-Thinking from Karl Kapp Game thinking and behavior design Angry Birds was one of those platforms that employed a compelling gameplay through persuasive design. Game thinking applies a similar and engaging behavior design. Let’s explore the connection between behaviour design and game thinking in shaping effective business transformation strategies. Game thinking & behaviour design from Dr. Marigo Raftopoulos Game thinking in consumer apps All humans have a natural desire to play and to be honest, the notion that we outgrow that stage is false. We are socially trained to contain that desire but upon exposure to playful or game environment, we all tend to enjoy. A similar idea is applied in consumer apps. Let’s take a look. The Right Way to Apply Game Thinking in Consumer Apps from Ricardo Leon Gamification 101 – design the player journey The player is the user interacting with your system and as he progresses through your design, it builds his experience. This is going to be a typical customer journey in which rewards and game dynamics will shape the progress. Check out this elaborate workshop. Gamification 101: Design the Player Journey from Amy Jo Kim Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) is currently a promising and emerging business. Every big or small business requires ERP software, which automates the business processes. The ideal way to do this is through the SAP ERP system. Since the implementation of the ERP system is a lengthy and complicated process, it is normal for many entrepreneurs to have concerns about its usefulness. Here in this blog, we are going to explain why it is important for your business. Why Is ERP Important for Your Business? ERP is an information system capable of centralizing and unifying data from different business departments to accelerate the flow of information. Both executives and middle managers will have unified real-time information to expedite the decision-making process. The significance of ERP is centered on what it does for your business. It handles a number of business tasks by streamlining and automating daily business activities. The software produces a leaner and precise procedure and offers a full, 360-degree perspective of the inside and outside of your business. With the help of ERP, businesses are able to boost both user efficiency and productivity. Top 10 Benefits of SAP ERP Here’s why companies around the globe are executing ERP software. 1. Advancer Data Management Performance metrics and measurements are key to assessing business success and for helping to set future objectives. However, while a business expands, it will become increasingly hard to calculate the sales margin, profit ratios and other such metrics manually. ERP introduces a level of automation to the business by enabling staff throughout the organization to view shared data with no need to retain manual records. This also allows the generation of synchronized reports on important company metrics. Immediate access to information is important for timely decision-making. 2. Cost-Efficient It also helps minimize the administration and operations expenses by use of accurate and real-time information. It also enables manufacturers to control operations, dissuade delays in production, and break up information, which eventually results in official making decisions much more effectively. 3. Avoids Duplication and Ensures Transparency When all your business information is shared in a single database, the existence of duplicate records and data entries will no longer be a problem, as the system will automatically report the present system records. This improves the quality of the data that lets you create exact pictures in distinct scenarios. At the same time, the transparency of your business gets upgraded to new stages. Be it your inventory product level, purchase orders or billing and delivery, the application of the ERP system will screen and monitor every marginal operation and task, providing a clear view of the performance of the tasks with absolute clarity. 4. Revamp Performance Efficiency The ERP system excludes repetitive operations and significantly lowers the need to manually enter data, which not only helps user productivity but also reduces the chance of erroneous data that could result in costly business errors. The adoption of the ERP system will also enhance day-to-day company operations by streamlining business processes, making it simpler and more effective for businesses to gather information, regardless of where they work. It is kind of an added feature, envisioned to keep businesses on track, to notice every detail and to make working life simpler and more effective, from users of the software to customers. 5. Integration with Other Value Chain Participants ERP concept goes beyond the limits of business by integrating other members of the value chain: customers and suppliers. The company thus becomes a major partner that can benefit from a competitive advantage by actively engaging in the design and development of new products that add value to their experience. As far as customers are concerned, ERP empowers you to get more information and higher quality that lets you adjust production orders and purchase your requirements. On the other hand, we will get a segmented database of our customers that will make it possible for us to carry out marketing campaigns targeting specific segments. 6. Excessive Mobility The benefit of enterprise resource planning software is its capacity to put customers at the core of its attention, offering deployment styles that will bring street sales reps the same possibilities as in-office customers to use ERP wherever they need to. With ERP software, users can access a centralized database from anywhere they work and from a range of devices, such as your laptop, tablet or cell phone. The adaptability of ERP software is vital because it improves productivity and makes data available wherever you may be. 7. Highly Customizable Since the demands of each business are unique, each business gets a tailored system. It takes into account operational and departmental specifications. ERP systems are easy, flexible and adaptable. This implies that it is simple for every employee to use it. It is adaptive because varying system modules exist for different departments, including sales and distribution, product management, finance, and staff management modules. It is adaptable because the system is available via mobile devices. Employees or management can, therefore, use the software from almost anywhere. 8.Absolute Analysis and Forecasting It is difficult to depend on people that can provide accurate information evaluation along with reports. The ERP system takes away the risk because there is no duplication of data. The system offers real-time reports of every trivial thing that takes place in a business. It serves risk assessment, as well as performance reports. It reviews purchases and alterations in inventory as they're happening. Enterprise resource planning software provides customers and, most notably, managers with the tools and resources required to make more exact forecasts. 9.Reliable Customer Service Adequate execution of the ERP enables us to pay attention to the customer in a very short period of time. Keeping your customers satisfied while handling your sales and inventory effectively can be a daunting job if you have your customer and inventory data stored on separate systems. ERP helps to keep up-to-date information while making it easier to update all data in real-time. This will help customers to access accurate, up-to-date information and to cope effectively with their customers. It also provides us a much quicker traceability feature. 10. Security Assurance ERP facilitates enhanced security of the company’s IT systems. Core business data will be adequately secured in two respects: for the purposes of information theft or unauthorized access, and data security. All other alternatives integrate different levels of access or authorization. On the other hand, the information is centralized and the backups are scheduled automatically to prevent any failure. In the situation of cloud solutions, data security is even higher to be duplicated to separate locations. As we all know the digital era began with millennials, but its never going to end with them. In fact, its evolving and has engulfed the fast-paced generation Z or the first tribe of digital natives. Together the two generations comprise of gamers either by profession or in practice. Incidentally, marketers view the system of gamification and point scoring as an ideal means to engage these two generations. What is gamification? Gamification in modern world applies the techniques of playful learning that involves certain elements of gaming. So, a web or mobile user who is familiar with the mechanics of gaming would experience competition, point scoring and certain rules of the game. The idea is to engage the millennials and post millennials who have played video games in the childhood. Of course, this makes them different than the generations before them. Here’s a fun fact: Before turning 21, the average American has spent 2,000-3,000 hours reading books and more than 3x that playing video games. Gamification is an actual strategy in digital marketing, but not every business is looking forward to employ it. However, it really connects with the millennial generation. Here are some reasons to validate this statement. Instant gratification always wins Both millennials and post-millennials are universally known for their behavior and seeking instant gratification is part of the behavior they display. Anything that makes them wait is depriving them the fuel that runs them and structural ambiguity in instructions annoys them to the core. So if you promise to deliver a product or service, promise a realistic TOD. Whatever you intend to communicate, make sure it appeals to them and never forget to reward them for their patience. Announce the reward right away Shorten the sign-up experience and always end it with a reward or token. You can also limit some of the crucial features of the software or app along the way unlocking them only when they complete certain tasks. And the cycle of engagement goes on. The gamification industry is expected to grow from 2015 to over 11 billion in 2020 which explains the keen interest of marketers and retailers. Some established as well as emerging brands actively employ gamification as a marketing tool to engage customers and garner a strong relationship with them. Technically, if you have gaming spirit, you must be a kid from the 90's. So, you can understand a gamified user-experience better than everyone else. Much like in video games, players earn rewards for leveling up which motivates them to keep playing. The customers can be motivated in a similar way when they are offered lucrative rewards for achieving a certain milestone. This technique is known as gamification. It has become a revolutionary part for a wide range of reputable brands. In fact, Gamification strategies have become a standard practice. Let's recount some of the most effective strategies executed by brands. Reward wars An organized system of points collection is an incredible way to impress regular customers. If a customer values a brand over its competitors, they will keep coming back but might also consider alternatives. Reward wars is an excellent model of gamification that keeps them hooked for points collection as well. Here's an example of how Starbucks achieved brand loyalty to remain undefeated. Starbucks Starbucks made use of gamification through the loyalty program called ‘My Starbucks Rewards’ - a strategy that proved to be an ace for customer engagement and better ROI. The regular customers at StarBucks were offered incentives like free food, and drinks by collecting stars on each purchase and then redeeming them for prizes. Apart from that, free birthday beverage and refills were also offered to the customers who earned more stars. All in all, this was a simple reward system to keep the customers engaged. Gamification via digital kiosk Digital Kiosks Digital kiosks have superseded their traditional function and now they are actively used for consumer engagement. Brands are experimenting with this new found tool to make people talk about their them. A fail safe idea is to engage people through games and digital kiosks provide just the right platform for that. Samsumg demonstrates the perfect use of outdoor space for engaging audience. Samsung Samsung started a campaign with the name of “All eyes on S4” where the participants were given a chance to win the new generation mobile phone. All they had to do was keep their eye on the screen for a specific period of time where they had to avoid all the outrageous distractions such as birds chattering, horns of motor bikes, barking dogs and even the people who were gathered around the player. This unique exercise attracted multiple spectators on the scene. It was a fascinating campaign that resulted in an entertaining social experience. Game Fame No childhood is complete without a game of treasure hunt. The idea of hunting for reward used to add thrill to reward seeking. So, creating an online game affiliated to your brand’s campaign can be a great idea for marketing since no one is too old to play games. Magnum Magnum initiated the ‘Pleasure Hunt’, an extremely addictive game inspired by old school Mario and Frogger. A sweet young lady who was associated with the brand, was controlled by the users. The lady had to collect as many chocolate balls as she can. The score of the game can be shared to challenge a friend. It is known to be one of the most successful and referred to as one of the top most creative digital campaign. It was so well organized and was linked to social media too, which took the success of this campaign to a great height but we all know this campaign did not come cheap. Social Media Graphic Gaming With social media chanting on every corner of the street, social media gaming can prove to be a milestone when comes to marketing. You just need to create an eye catchy graphic game, to give a boom to your brand online. M&M’s Eye-Spy Pretzel On the launch of M&M’s pretzel-flavored candy, this brand gamified it’s marketing to the next level. They designed a very interesting graphic game called Eye-Spy Pretzel on Facebook in which the users simply had to find the pretzel candy which was hidden among lots of M&M candies. This game in such a short span became so viral and popular creating a loud noise on social media. This strategy became a strong stone for bringing huge conversion to the brand. Let the App play This is the age of smartphones and tablets and downloading apps to solve every problem, is the new cool. Whether it be keeping a track of your data or your health records. You have the access to use applications anywhere and everywhere. So, designing apps with a smart marketing strategy can really affect huge number of masses and can bring gigantic conversions to businesses. Nike+ Fuel Bands Nike launched an application in the year 2012 but in order for the app to work you must first need to buy Nike accessory. The personalized Nike+Fuel accessory, is a bracelet with a special technology. It can monitor its user’s movements. With this band and application, people can track their workout stats like the number of calories they have burned and others. Apart from that, this app can also be linked with social media which helps users to share their achievements with each other. Also, trophies and badges are rewarded to people who achieve athletic accomplishments. This social media element undoubtedly increased the Nike+Fuel band demand. It motivated consumers to make more use of their products and get more rewards which resulted in huge conversions. For businesses that want to taste gamification marketing strategies, they must first know the demands of their target audience. They should start small may be? And then analyze what works best for their audience and then give gamification a kick off! Staff augmentation is a general outsourcing approach used by companies to swiftly gauge their internal team to fulfill IT needs. By employing outside developers to work in-house, IT staff augmentation plays a key role in reducing the gap between recruiting full-time staff and working with a remote team. Outsourcing and staff augmentation contribute monumentally to the global economy. In 2017, the outsourcing market totaled to $88.9 billion globally, not only because it’s thought to be less costly to outsource. According to reports, organizations often outsource to focus on their main business activities, solve capability issues and augment service quality. In the last decade, outsourcing software development has gained huge traction. According to the World Economic Forum, a large number of organizations in the next few years are likely to use outside contractors, impermanent staff, and freelancers to build their teams. IT staff augmentation provides a number of benefits, including secured flexibility, less recruitment time, efficient staff management, lower expenses, and affordable access to expert developers. To fit time and financial limitations, an increasing number of companies turn to staff augmentation, which provides benefits no freelancers or in-house team can beat. Staff augmentation, in short, is they to key to organizations’ success in this day and age. Nevertheless, several organizations are not aware of how staff augmentation services can help them. Here’s a quick look at how they can take advantage of staff augmentation more effectively. 1. Always Ensure Clear Communication According to a study, 85% of workers and executives quote a lack of teamwork as responsible for workplace fiascos. Clear communication is vital to the success of every development project. Processes should be set up early in the development lifespan to enable open communication. Project management tools encourage the sharing of ideas and help enable teamwork. A dearth of communication in the outsourcing realm can also lead to misunderstandings that can have a damaging effect on the success of a project. It is, therefore, important to be communicative when doing staff augmentation. 2. Developers should realize the principles of project That it’s important to define the roles of everyone involved in your project goes without saying. Internal as well as external developers should appreciate the fundamental principles of your project and how they fit into your vision. Project managers and team leaders should be allocated to ensure individual errands are completed on time and to the possible standard. Well-defined roles also provide developers with a point of contact to share ideas and provide response. It’s important to enforce development workflows if staff augmentation is to have some impact. All employees should understand the individual steps involved in the project, including when meetings are scheduled, what tasks have been assigned and to whom. 3. Embrace Management Tools and Technology According to reports, companies that use any type of project management method are better at meeting budget, being on schedule, meeting scope, complying with quality standards, and meeting anticipated benefits. To benefit from an enlarged team, businesses ought to hold project management tools and technologies. Tools such as Asana, Jira, and Basecamp help keep projects on the right track by screening their progress at every level of the development lifespan. 4. Ensure All Coding Has a Record Code documentation is the lifeblood of every software application. Organizations should go the extra mile to ensure that bigger teams document their code at every stage of the project. Software requires continuous updating and upkeep and having several developers who can read the code makes it easier to highlight problems or possible risks. Organizations should decide on a collective method to code documentation that is suitable for everyone, including bigger staff. Tools such as Swagger help enforce clear practices for code documentation and other important methods such as pair programming. 5. Be Flexible It’s easier to integrate expanded teams if organizations promote flexibility. Maintaining inflexible development procedures seldom result in the desired outcome. Development practices such as Agile help teams to be more flexible and attain positive results. When working with an expanded team, a certain level of concession is always required. Enlarged teams generally have sufficient experience in working along with internal developers and often have unique insights into workflow best practices. By remaining flexible and promoting feedback, enlarged teams can help recognize more effective ways of working. Is it only Facebook that is in hot waters for data privacy breach? We know that is not the case. But whenever Facebook fails its users, we suddenly start to take the issue of data breach seriously. In information age the priciest asset is data. This makes it vulnerable to theft and so the firms that provide data security are in demand. Yet there are incidents of data breach surging and now Facebook finds itself in hot waters after the Cambridge Analytica scandal. Following this incident, the civil society, legislators and the users in general demand for active investigation and practical efforts to secure data. Also, everyone took to social media to voice their concern and actively campaign for #deletefacebook. Since then, the tech giant has lost billions in brand worth and the stock prices has plummeted. However, it’s worth noting that this was not the only tech giant that failed to protect data. Several incidents on data theft in the recent past have brought to our attention the incompetence of tech companies. Two instances, in general govern these security breaches. There was a cyber criminal actively fishing for data and ends up on a vulnerable system. Or A vulnerable system that lacked effective data protection was exploited by employee or others to cause a breach. You will notice either of the two instances are witnessed in all the recent data breach stories. So let's explore some of the tech giants that compromises our data. Yahoo – the final nail in the coffin The tech giant that was once worth a $100 billion was eventually acquired by Verizon for $4.48 billion. Yahoo had been through a series of data attacks but the breach in 2013, compromising 3 billion user accounts was the final nail in the coffin. Not surprisingly, the group of hackers were able to get the names, dates of birth, email addresses as well as the passwords. It was touted as the biggest data breach in history. "The company required all users who had not changed their passwords since the time of the theft to do so. Yahoo also invalidated unencrypted security questions and answers so they cannot be used to access an account." Uber defends leak of user information The famous taxi-hailing firm tried to cover up a breach that took place in 2016 by paying hackers to delete the data. Almost 2.7million users in UK were affected including 57 million customers and drivers from around the world. Uber later confirmed that the names, email addresses, phone numbers and license details were compromised. In a written statement, Uber CEO Dara Khosrowshahi said: "While we have not seen evidence of fraud or misuse tied to the incident, we are monitoring the affected accounts and have flagged them for additional fraud protection. Equifax fails to protect data The company is a credit bureau that got infamous due to a data breach. It happened as a result of an application vulnerability that exposed the personal information, social security numbers and addresses of 147.9 million consumers. On top of that, they admitted their incompetence as they were clueless about the incident for 2 months. Besides that, 209,000 customers of Equifax had their credit card data exposed. Ebay cyber attack compromises 145 million users data The tale of the online auction giant is also not free from controversy. eBay was hit by a cyberattack in 2014 and the personal details of 145 million users was accessed including their encrypted passwords. The hackers were able to get the credentials of 3 corporate employees which gave them access to the company for 229 days. Luckily the credit card information was stored separately which prevented access to crucial credit card details. Did you notice the similarities in all of the above stories? All these companies managed to fall back on their promises to protect consumer data. Note that all these stories begin with software vulnerabilities. While User interaction is designed, various significant aspects are often overlooked. A CTA is that black and white area that grants clarity. Call to action buttons are a tool of communication between the user and the system. In the world of e-commerce and/or m-commerce, a CTA button is more than a tool for capturing attention. It is rather an inevitable part of the user journey. The most commonly used call-to-action buttons have the following purposes. Add to cart Free trial sign-up Download The virtual click affects provided in the CTA button is guided with visual sign. Often the consideration for CTA button design has to be the right mix of art and science. If you get that right, you will get more clicks and conversions. Here’s a small run-down of design tips to lead user to checkout or any other intended action. CTA Button size should be proportionate Well, bigger button draw attention and are mobile-friendly but avoid overdoing it. The idea is to provide a smooth user experience by increasing the clickable area. Also, the text within that button should be readable and centrally aligned. A finger-friendly button is most desirable if you want to design it mobile audience. It is also safe to make the CTA 20% bigger than the logo. Go for rounded edges Notice the various apps and websites, and you will see most of them use a square button with rounded edges. The logic for this decision can be traced in visual psychology. Rounded corners are believed to attract people’s attention to the center whereas square edges draw people’s attention away from the center. A word of caution though for people who would like to experiment and choose outrageous shapes. Label Call-to-Action Buttons accurately The last you want is to trap the user in a rut of ambiguity. If the user has doubts about clicking, then perhaps you haven’t clarified the message. Ideally, it should state the obvious because generic or misleading labels happen to be one of the top reasons for cart abandonment. Imagine that you accidentally triggered a delete action and now you see the following error message. It's a crucial situation where you have no idea what 'OK' or 'cancel' represent. Leave Ample Whitespace Too much text or images around a CTA button would also distract the user. In order to make the message on the Call-to-action button stand out, it is important to leave some negative space. To add more drama, you can guide to the button by placing arrows pointing towards it. Here’s an example to elucidate the idea. Project management outsourcing, particularly on the information technology front, has been a growing industry for some time. Outside vendors influence an assortment of expertise, and for the client having accomplished engineers and development employees when producing a new software application or upholding an existing one is literally worth its weight in gold. One of the most common features of botched projects is insufficient project management, and this is particularly true with regard to outsourced teams, where communication risks are very high. Therefore, the question of whether to handle the team by using in-house resources, or outsource project management to the team clearly arises. Over the years, it has been revealed that managing team on the side of outsourcing provider proves effective for the provider as well as the client. Here are some of the advantages and disadvantages of project management. Advantages of Outsourcing Project Management: 1. Experience One of the major benefits of constricting project management outsourcing services is experience. Companies providing elevated IT services bring to the table best practices over numerous clients and industries. One way to review it is to envisage if your in-house project manager had the chance to share best practices with what s/he is engaged with your company with similar corporations, industry-wide, on a regular basis. This is honestly impossible as: a) the time just doesn’t allow; b) companies usually are not keen to share information with future competitors. This is not to suggest that an outsourced project manager would begin working and share the business secrets of a likely competitor. Disclosure contracts protect against this, and in most cases, it’s unlawful. But what outsourcing providers will do, the wise ones at least, is influence the general best practices of the project manager to get the most out of that individual and the contracted company’s joint experience. 2. Objectivity Undoubtedly, one of the most trying things to do at any level of a company is to detach oneself from a project, team or general culture, and take an impartial, external look back in. Personal benefits, relationships, office politics, etc., mess up this exercise, which renders it in most cases impossible. Outsourced project managers come with an idea and direction that resolutely center on developing and advancing the venture to the best of their competences, and that of the company contracting them. Their emphasis is methodical and management-centric, and the “noise” that usually pervades from employees steeped in their own corporate culture does not matter in their decision-making. Objectivity is a welcome relief to most managers, particularly those looking to advance a project as quickly and competently as possible. 3. Cost Cost is one of the major benefits of outsourcing project management. Having in-house resources devoted to dealing everyday operations of a completely geographically discrete team is a possible cost to the company in and of itself. By using outsourced project management services, organizations shift all the risks with regard to routine management of the team to the team itself. The internal project manager effectively handles things like scheduling, preparation, task assignment, deliverable control. Furthermore, shifting internal resources from one project to another can be particularly expensive to a company if they are not completely sure the action will be a beneficial one. Cost in this context should be realized over the long term. It will generally be less expensive for a company to contract out services that an outsourced provider is more accomplished in managing and providing. Disadvantages of Outsourcing Project Management: While the pros do outweigh the cons, it would not be wrong to mention the common drawbacks that come up with outsourcing project management. 1. Culture Irrespective of the industry, unique company values are omnipresent. This is not to suggest that all company cultures are equally entrenched. Some are enormously powerful while others are more inert. However, within the pros and cons of outsourcing project management, one of the major cons that organizations will refer to is being able to find development teams with capacity to effectively blend into a company ethos that is formerly unknown. Thus, in order to make this integration procedure as quick and even as possible, substantial efforts are needed from an outsourcing company in the early period to begin effective communication and acquaint the team with company culture at hand. 2. Vendor Reliance Vendor dependency is a notion that a long time ago was a real apprehension for companies when bringing in outside parties to work together and take on vital services. The concern arises from a vendor being so capable and highly effective that the company would have no choice moving forward than to rely on them for all similar such services. While in theory this sounds like something that could be possibly incapacitating for a firm, the concept of competitive benefit exists for a reason and those firms that identify how outsourced models, functions and policy can co-exist and add value to their operation are companies that will maintain an enduring leg-up. Furthermore, vendor reliance if it is connected to key competitive returns is not a dependency issue at all. If a company identifies that they can rely on a valued, experienced outsourcing service that comprehends the company culture and integrates flawlessly with their respective teams, that is smart business, not reliance. Conclusion To conclude, it can be rightly said that outsourcing IT project management have a number of benefits, but only if the right organization is chosen. Experience is key in this realm and while we identify there are always obstacles to overcome, it’s expected that the aforementioned list of pros and cons can help an organization make the right decision for the next project. Not every marketing campaign is cringe worthy. Some of them just fail to create any impact, neither positive nor negative. It's a general perception that a campaign inviting massive criticism is a failure. Quite the opposite is true in this case. However the brand needs to be careful in its approach and not invite criticism. One wrong move and your ideas can go terribly wrong. As we know, marketing campaigns can fail due to a number of unanticipated reasons. For example, delivering content at a wrong time, choice of improper words in the campaign, not catering to the needs of target audience, brand's message leading to number of interpretations etc. A marketing fail is a window of opportunity for emerging brands that learn from the mistakes of their predecessors. So, let’s look at top marketing fails of 2017 and take lessons of preventions from them. Dove’s ethnic diversity ad backfires A Dove advertisement was posted on Facebook which was a four-panel image showing an African young girl taking off her shirt which is similar to her skin color in three panels and in the fourth panel a young white woman was shown. People immediately started criticizing the ad, calling it racist. In fact, Google’s search query suggests it as “Dove’s racist ad”. Ultimately, Dove had to apologize to the audience. Takeaway: Avoid posting racial superiority. No brand should ever create an add which can be easily taken out of context. Uber backs the wrong horse During the first half of 2017, When Donald Trump’s ban on Muslim countries affected the trade. The New York Taxi Workers Alliance asked members to stay out of the JFK airport for an hour. At this moment, Uber announced low pricing at the airport which left the anti-ban users with no other choice but to remove the app and express their rage on twitter. Uber tried to save themselves from pedal maneuver but the damage was done already. Takeaway: It is better not to jump into political scenarios and prefer profits over ethics. If in some case you have to do it, then be prepared to deal with all the circumstances. Pepsi jumps in with both feet Pepsi casted Kendall Jenner in their advertisement which featured that the tension is rising between the police and protestors until she appeared and so effortlessly resolved the protest by sharing a can of Pepsi with the cop. The commercial trivialized the significance of protest which was happening at that time in America. Besides, Kendall was not the right representative. She might be a perfect pick for Pepsi in a situation other than protest. Takeaway: When aligning a brand with a movement, make sure that the tone of the movement goes with the brand. Also, cast people who are associated with the cause. McDonald's pain-play It is really hard to offend anyone with food but McDonalds did it. The spot showed a young boy conversing with his mother about his dead father, hoping one of his father’s trait will be like him. It is showed that the young boy shares nothing mutual with his father except for their shared love for fish-o-fillet sandwiches. The advertisement received swift criticism for offending the sentiments of people that McDonalds had to apologize. Takeaway: Attaching sentiments to a campaign is a good strategy for marketing but only if it’s done wisely. Adidas gone wrong with wordplay Adidas sent an email to all the participants of Boston Marathon with the subject, “Congrats, you survived the Boston Marathon” which offended the people and drew a lot of criticism from participants, their friends and families. It reminded them of the tragic 2013 Marathon, during which a lot of people were killed and injured due to terrorism. Thus, Adidas had to apologize for this inconsiderate move. Takeaway: Word choice should be immensely considered and should be cross checked. What you intend, doesn’t matter. Message is in the words! Snapchat ruins the surprise Snapchat wanted to make a big announcement and in order to grab the attention of the masses, Snapchat employees began cryptically tweeting the link to the webpage. That page displayed a countdown clock. Snapchat very excitedly put all the efforts into its timer that they forgot about the clock on other computers. Savvy snap chatters couldn’t wait for the timer to stop and by adjusting the clock forward on their computers, they quickly tricked the site. Hence, revealing the surprise. The surprise was about the collaboration of AR into the application with artist Jeff Koons. Takeaway: Before making any big reveal, make sure every little detail from NDAs signed to every piece of marketing collateral is taken care of. Facebook’s insensitive move Zuckerberg, the CEO of Facebook and Rachel Franklin- head of social video on Facebook were shown talking and discussing the social network's latest venture (i.e. VR App Spaces). It was a 10-minute long NPR produced 360 video against the backdrop of a devastated Puerto Rico after the hurricane Maria. It was hoped that it would result in people wanting to use their application but it only became a huge flop, making Zuckerberg to apologize instead. Takeaway: Ensure that your dry run explores more than just tech. Think from various perspectives. An internal team should be assigned to keep a check on the potential pitfalls. Wrapping up If you are a head of a marketing team of any business regardless of its size and market, make sure your marketing strategy is free from political biases, body shaming or color races, or anything that could be constructed as negative. Because any marketing tactic will set up your brand’s image. All the marketing fails above are a lesson for the smart people as once a wiseman said: “Average people learn from their mistakes. Smart people learn from other people’s mistakes.” Search engine optimization plays a key role in the growth of your online business. It not only helps search engine robots precisely index your web pages, but it also helps improve user experience. As a long-term marketing strategy, however, SEO can help drive organic traffic and gradually increase your site’s ranking in SERPs. If you have observed an abrupt drop in your ranking and traffic, then you may be making some grave SEO mistakes. Some of them are: Website speed Poor website speed is one of the main SEO errors that results in a high bounce rate. Which means that if your website loading speed is slow, it could affect your site’s performance. Broken links Broken links are another reason for a high-bounce rate. Not only do broken links on your website impact user experience, but they also make indexing of the website more difficult for search engines. Keyword stuffing Random keyword stuffing is no longer the name of the game as it used to be in the past. Today, Google penalizes you if you try to stuff keywords or over-optimize target keywords. This could adversely affect your brand’s credibility. Using LSI keywords and search terms if one of the best ways to avoid this. This will also help improve readers’ experience, which could help enhance your rankings. Substandard content The importance of high-quality can hardly be overlooked when it comes to search engine optimization. You can really improve your SEO by producing content that is free of grammatical and structural mistakes. Non-mobile-friendly website Google has mandated the use of mobile-friendly websites. So, you may lose out on potential traffic if you still haven’t switched to one. If you don’t want your ROI to be affected, it’s time you made the move! Conclusion There’s no doubt that SEO is key to the success of your online business. To drive traffic and improve ranking, it’s better to implement best SEO practices and avoid common SEO mistakes. Is Aliexpress really worth the hype? Is it platform worth considering for dropshipping? These are perhaps some of the most common questions an entrepreneur willing to build an e-store would have in mind. And then there are questions on profits and business expansion opportunities. You will notice the most suitable answer appears in the form of Aliexpress dropshipping Dropshipping makes it possible to sell products online at a hefty profit margin without ever worrying about the inventory. This allows you to run an e-store and save a lot of time while doing so. However, the only limitation is to connect with an appropriate dropshipping platform. Indeed, Aliexpress offers the fastest link to building an ecommerce presence. Why dropshipping is ideal? It negates the need to maintain a brick and mortar store. Hence there is no need to purchase or rent a physical space. Once the order is confirmed, the dropshipping supplier takes care of dispatching the order which reduces the hassle for the store owner. It offers opportunity to set up store with diverse product offerings. You can experiment with various segments and try your luck marketing for each to see which one works out for you. Since there is no physical inventory, this is possible. Where does a bad design comes from? It stems from lack of effective communication between designers and developers who happen to be on different planets. Or to be more precise, they don’t quite speak the same language. Their feuds always remain the talk of the group. Usually, they will struggle to prove their dominance over each other even while working on the same project. However, the conflict of ideas is not just restricted to work. There is often an array of confusion when it comes to use of terms. Web designer and web developer, as you might know are used interchangeably. In fact, a web designer gets riddled with questions like “Can you code?” This attitude is prevalent perhaps due to the fact that a client is not concerned about the team but interested in the end result or return on investment. Yet, there is an effective way to classify the two positions separately if roles are clearly defined for each position for a web design and development project. The criteria can vary but it will prevent the often visible conflict of interest in the two positions. But the question remains what are the attributes that make the two poles apart or rather planets apart. In the world of a web designer An ideal designer is usually creative and stands out in his craft. They have a knack for getting to know the in-depth details and understanding the overall vision of the client. Aesthetics and user-experience are essential for the designer. In the world of the web developer They form the technical side with commendable problem-solving skills. You will see them brag their math skills and are the jedi of various programming languages including CSS, PHP, HTML, Python and more. When it comes to web developers, their skillset is far vast in comparison to a software developer. The melting pot Perhaps out of habit the two are often seen entangled in a tug-o-war in which each side tries to dominate and take up tasks that go beyond their capabilities. It is a challenge to look for a common ground between the two. This time it’s a lawsuit that claims Apple’s voice technology is responsible for infringing on the patents belonging to another company. Apple has previously filed lawsuits against other brands and has been slapped with quite a few lawsuits itself. Sometime’s a consumer takes the giant to court or another tech company and we have grown used to that. What’s new this time is that the troubled voice assistant has landed Apple in a lawsuit filed by Advanced Voice Recognition Systems. The infamous Siri violates Speech Recognition and Transcription Among Users Having Heterogenous Protocols. After this infringement, the products that are under risk are iPhone, iPad, Mac, Apple Watch, and everything that has Siri on it. It is Alleged that Apple got to know about this violation in 2013 which is precisely 2 years after the launch of Siri in 2011. Since then, AVRS have offered Apple a license to the 730 patent which got denied. The Advanced Voice Recognition Systems own the patent from 2001 which was modified to the current state in 2009. AVRS currently holds six patents covering the same technology including 730 Patent and are expecting to get royalty damages for the giants unauthorized use of the patent. It is worth noting that AVRS is a non-practicing entity that acquired the patent in 2013. Another aspect of the story that has unfolded is their unwillingness to sue google or Samsung for voice recognition in off-device processing for the user. Targeting Siri will impact Apple the most since it offers the virtual assistant in almost all products. "We believe our patents are among the most valuable of our assets and we intend to vigorously enforce our rights," said AVRS CEO Walter Geldenhuys. Indeed, the consumer of today has found a new voice with virtual assistants. Voice technology empowers the modern consumer like never before. However, this shift in consumer trends places the ecommerce organizations at a difficult position because they have a challenge to listen to the consumer and do it fast. Besides, the voice-activated assistants coupled with predictive analytics can accumulate more data regarding the purchase patterns of users. This would eventually enable the retailer to predict buyer’s journey and purchase pattern. Currently voice assistants are in their evolution but as they get more precise, both retailers and consumers will actualize the benefits of voice search and voice recognition. Here's how some of the popular virtual assistants are enabling the consumer. Google Assistant Google Assistant can be an incredible shopping partner working on voice commands. It handles the checkout process like any human by asking the user to select delivery address from Google account and complete the purchase from the handset. After that, the user selects a payment method and places order with a voice command which is authenticated with finger prints. In this whole process, Google assistant feels like a chatbot that keeps asking for next step. Amazon Alexa When tech gadgets got advanced, we held it, then wore but now we can talk to it. In return, voice activated Alexa would not just respond but also solve our queries for us. Amazon Echo powered by alexa appeals to the younger consumers who are more affluent with the tech. now if you are a retailer or brand offering products or services, then you need to align it with alexa. Various organizations are already catching up to a voice tech channel strategy. If you are an ecommerce, you need to get friendly with Alexa. Using voice command to ask Alexa to place an order to be shipped from Amazon is now a possibility. Microsoft Cortana Cortana is Microsoft’s digital assistant that acts as an online shopping aid to give you price comparisons. However, low pricing might not be the only determining factor for purchase decision. Sometimes, the consumer has to choose a provider that offers better return policy. Besides offering you the best price, Cortana also allows the user to initiate a checkout on account of addressed and payment details saved in advance. Samsung Bixby Bixby is a smart voice assistant that is released with Galaxy S8 and S8+. It allows the users to make calls, set tasks and get any action performed with voice command. This baby can also help you shop using image search. In future, they aim to take it to voice search as well. Voice commands have enabled a hands-free shopping experience for online shoppers. Since it requires less intervention from the user, voice shopping and voice search is expected to grow. For quite some time conversational commerce has enabled customers to interact with brands in real-time. The chat apps and voice assistants are now becoming an integral part of online businesses. However, they are about to take a leap forward with voice search that returns the right results to a spoken query. Essentially, this would boost the online sales as the millennials and post millennials are the first generations fully accustomed to the usage of voice search. But that’s not all. Over half of iphone users now use siri, whereas, Google Ok is gaining traction among android users. As for the users between the age group of 18 – 24, at least 48% are already using voice recognition software. So, if the smartphone market currently stands at 2.5 billion users, it creates 1 to 1.5 billion potential customers who would readily use voice tech. Will you use voice search for shopping? What is speech technology? The term speech tech involves 2 different techs called speech recognition and speech production. In case of speech recognition, speech becomes the input to the system, whereas speech production offers a modality for conveying the output of the system verbally to the user though the auditory channel. Why speech search matters? It has become inevitable to incorporate voice recognition and voice search in ecommerce owing to the growing number of users who are accustomed to this technology. It makes search convenient and faster for people on the go because speech was about 3.0 times faster than the keyboard for English. Voice recognition and voice search also caters to the elderly and disabled user groups that cannot make use of the visuo-motor communication. Speech search makes use of user’s purchasing history to suggest relevant products. Voice search goes mobile Businesses are already investing in optimizing mobile app experiences to fit voice search and voice recognition. It all started with Amazon introducing Alexa. That was the first mover that came up with custom voice experience. While some pioneers are leading the way for speech search, the user in general will benefit from all who enable them to find exactly what they are looking for at much faster pace. Voice gets competitive advantage It is expected that by 2020, 50% of all search will involve voice. Markets predict that a massive increase in Voice Shopping is to expected come following the wide acceptance of Smart Speakers by users, as more people are using Smart Speakers to make at least one purchase. However, these purchases are mostly low-value purchases, with a maximum of 20% going to Grocery, 19% to entertainment, 17% to electronics, and 8% to clothing. In a nutshell speech-enabled ecommerce has a lot to offer to the elderly and the disabled, perhaps even more than its ordinary users. Speech enabled ecommerce has already become a reality despite the fact that there are certain limitations to robust speech recognition and speech production of high quality. Voice commands have enabled a hands-free shopping experience for online shoppers. Since it requires less intervention from the user, voice shopping and voice search is expected to grow. For quite some time conversational commerce has enabled customers to interact with brands in real-time. The chat apps and voice assistants are now becoming an integral part of online businesses. However, they are about to take a leap forward with voice search that returns the right results to a spoken query. Essentially, this would boost the online sales as the millennials and post millennials are the first generations fully accustomed to the usage of voice search. But that’s not all. Over half of iphone users now use siri, whereas, Google Ok is gaining traction among android users. As for the users between the age group of 18 – 24, at least 48% are already using voice recognition software. So, if the smartphone market currently stands at 2.5 billion users, it creates 1 to 1.5 billion potential customers who would readily use voice tech. Will you use voice search for shopping? What is speech technology? The term speech tech involves 2 different techs called speech recognition and speech production. In case of speech recognition, speech becomes the input to the system, whereas speech production offers a modality for conveying the output of the system verbally to the user though the auditory channel. Why speech search matters? It has become inevitable to incorporate voice recognition and voice search in ecommerce owing to the growing number of users who are accustomed to this technology. It makes search convenient and faster for people on the go because speech was about 3.0 times faster than the keyboard for English. Voice recognition and voice search also caters to the elderly and disabled user groups that cannot make use of the visuo-motor communication. Speech search makes use of user’s purchasing history to suggest relevant products. Voice search goes mobile Businesses are already investing in optimizing mobile app experiences to fit voice search and voice recognition. It all started with Amazon introducing Alexa. That was the first mover that came up with custom voice experience. While some pioneers are leading the way for speech search, the user in general will benefit from all who enable them to find exactly what they are looking for at much faster pace. Voice gets competitive advantage It is expected that by 2020, 50% of all search will involve voice. Markets predict that a massive increase in Voice Shopping is to expected come following the wide acceptance of Smart Speakers by users, as more people are using Smart Speakers to make at least one purchase. However, these purchases are mostly low-value purchases, with a maximum of 20% going to Grocery, 19% to entertainment, 17% to electronics, and 8% to clothing. In a nutshell speech-enabled ecommerce has a lot to offer to the elderly and the disabled, perhaps even more than its ordinary users. Speech enabled ecommerce has already become a reality despite the fact that there are certain limitations to robust speech recognition and speech production of high quality. Fashion and technology are the two unique industries that reinvent themselves almost every season. This constant change is driven by customer preferences. Fashion makes a statement worldwide and it remains to be the top category for online retail shopping. Quite a few top fashion brands have had a journey that started from the smartphone revolution. They were quick to notice and accommodate into the changing landscape of technology. More businesses in this industry are realizing the consumer shift. We are almost at the brink of time when consumers would interact with digital assistants for mundane tasks and asking a chat bot to display the latest collection from a brand. The assistant would call out the name and price as it makes an appearance on the screen. That calls for the need to prepare for visual and voice search. Evaluating the rise of voice activated digital assistants for e-commerce has revealed some of the bright prospects this technology presents. “In 5 years time, at least 50% of all searches are going to be either through images or search” Andrew NG, Baidu Chief Scientist Is voice the future of search? Will Hayllar, partner and global head of consumer goods at OC&C adds his 2 cents to the prospects of voice search. “Voice technology taps into the move towards frictionless retailing and the need to make it easier and easier to purchase products, both in terms of the process and enabling customers to buy something exactly when they want it.” Visual search complementarity When visual search gained momentum, it changed the way people search and shop online. For mobile users, this was another opportunity for intuitive search. It minimizes the lengthy procedure of text-based search and creates a smoother customer journey by presenting what they are looking for. Besides a graphic eliminates the need for language and thus visual imagery serves as the universal language. Programmers are the master of their own bubble. Often perceived as the nerdy herd, they have creative traits that could surprise some professionals with an artistic taste. Their surroundings are creative because they balance two worlds: a world of structure and a world of imagination. This is not an easy task. Programmers have a tendency to think outside the box because they are capable of creating the box. For one, programmers have to create something from nothing. That in itself is the definition of creativity. Secondly, they know multiple ways to create one thing. It is just like a person who is placed in the center of a maze and he can find multiple ways out of it. Now try to wrap your head around those two ideas. Potentially, the two thought processes combined, enable them to build a framework for a website, something that was just an idea. They bring ideas to life and we will be showcasing some of those ideas pictured on real objects. Some of these will determine their lifestyle choice while other items are just a part of their job. My day begins with a coffee Every day is a new adventure in the world of coding and coffee is the fuel for the programmer. Code is in my blood Programmers are passionate about coding. It's hard to find someone in this career path who lacks the drive to excel. My laptop is my pillow Sleep is rare in a programmer's life and they are often seen napping with their head on their laptop. An adorable site for an onlooker. Those socks define me It's hard to be in the socks of a programmer, like literally. My watch reminds me of logic Not really a fashion statement. They would rather go for a logic statement. The lifestyle of a programmer is a complicated mess but their coding days repeat themselves in a loop. What else do programmers like to personalize? Share your thoughts. Since its inception in 2008, Magento has grown dramatically. In essence, Magento is an ecosystem developed according to the shifting market demands. It takes into account what a merchant needs from an ecommerce software and offers them opportunities to expand the business with low cost of ownership. Besides that, the upgraded version of Magento 2.2 offers B2C and B2B functionality that continues to push the boundaries of ecommerce platforms. As a result, Forrester has named Magento a leader in B2B market. Mark Lavelle, the CEO of Magento further elaborates their revamped product line and accomplishments on Open Source Magento as follows: “We continue to provide and contribute very heavily to Open Source. The community, the ecosystem around Magento is a key advantage for us in the market. It’s what our clients love about us, the diversity of solution implementation and technology integrations they get from Magento. We have over 265,000 developers across the world. We have 300 solution providers that we certify, and thousands of technology partners that integrate with Magento. That’s a very vibrant economy.” Magento highlighted the possibility of expansion from traditional e-commerce that was previously unheard of. Multi-vendor marketplace This feature allows the conversion of a simple e-store into a marketplace that offers various sellers including Amazon, eBay, Walmart and more. Multi-vendor marketplace is gaining popularity because it can create multiple shops to sell products that can reach lots of customers. Do you wish to convert your e-store into a multi-seller shopping platform? With the announcement of next generation open source digital commerce platform, brands, retailers and businesses in B2B and B2C are delivering an exceptional omni-channel shopping experience. Without further ado, let’s check out the features of Magento that make this possible. For an avid online shopper, there is a good chance of stumbling upon a Magento based online store. Over 220,000 active websites are currently running on Magento and this number is going to increase. In fact, it won't be wrong to say that present day commerce is impossible without Magento. What are your thoughts on the matter? What really is Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP)? Enterprise resource planning (ERP) is a procedure used mostly by businesses to handle and integrate core components of their businesses. Several ERP software apps are vital to businesses since they help them execute resource planning by integrating all the practices necessary to run their businesses with a unified system. The ERP software system can also incorporate scheduling, inventory purchases, sales, marketing, finance, human resources and much more. How ERP Works For Your Enterprise? ERP systems depend on a centrally controlled relational database, which gathers and stores business data in sheets. The central storage of data enables end-users, like finance, sales, and other departments, to easily access the requested information for analysis. Rather than staff in different departments maintaining their own spreadsheets and reports, ERP systems enable reporting to be obtained from a single centralized system. Information modified in a single ERP module, like those of CRM, HR, and finance, is sent to a central shared database. Suitable data in the central database will then be shared with all the other modules. Why ERP is Important? Here are four key business benefits of ERP IT cost savings Workflow efficiency Business process standardization platform Gateway for business innovation Although companies almost always depend on the first two fields because they are quick to quantify, the latter two areas may have a higher effect on businesses. ERP makes accessible real-time business information across the organization, allowing companies to adapt swiftly and respond to adjustments. Business information available in ERP systems offers for even more intelligent decision-making within an organization. ERP systems can also share information with third-party members and suppliers in order to strengthen the efficiency of the supply chain. Top 15 Manufacturing Software Leaders 1. Oracle ERP Cloud It provides an end-to-end business management framework, Oracle ERP Cloud offers customers with an embedded system for major companies, extending from telecommunications and marketing firms to pharmacological and manufacturers. It includes economic scheduling characteristics, risk management tools, project implementation features, and compliance surveillance options. Additionally, Oracle ERP Cloud also provides users with a Performance Management Module to help you measure profitability within your business and determine how and when to significantly improve operations. 2. MIE Trak Pro MIE Trak Pro ERP is designed for manufacturers by offering modules intended to fit most manufacturing processes and by optimizing the functionality of repetitive, customized, fast-turn and mixed-mode procedures. MIE Trak Pro restructures the main components for maximum speed, efficiency, consistency and execution in real-time. The system also provides a kiosk data catalog and whiteboard scheduling modules with drag-and-drop schedule changes. It includes user and seller centers and an executive management analysis to help ensure customers have access to real-time information updates. 3. DDI System The DDI System provides 'Inform ERP', which is a fully functional, real-time system that links every facet of distributor operation to a fast and efficient workflow. Informing aligns distribution procedures using tools designed to line up daily tasks with new, opportunistic sources of revenue and to start concentrating on the customer. Inform ERP offers business-specific solutions for distributors to succeed in today's competitive environment. With a remarkable competitive edge by an ever-changing, customer-connected, mobile-based and cloud-connected platform for progress, inform customers of a versatile solution that can operate from on-site, in-house either on-site servers or cloud-hosted environments. 4. SYSPRO SYSPRO ERP software is a fully integrated on-site and cloud-based business software solution that offers authority over all aspects of business planning and management. The SYSPRO solution provides your business visibility and power, comprising more than 50 self-developed modules built for mid-market manufacturers and retailers in a multitude of sectors, such as food, machinery, and electronics, etc. Every SYSPRO business aspect, including financial, CRM, inventory, processes and supply chain management, is regulated via the SYSPRO user interface. It is among the first businesses to develop ERP software, uses a single-source solution after three decades of focus — the single DNA software guarantees that there are one installation and no complicated integration or need to install various modules. 5. Abas ERP With more than 35 years, Abas have actually helped production-related businesses everywhere around the globe embrace change and benefit from the digital transformation with efficient ERP software, smart enterprise process consulting. Abas offers ERP and Business Process Management software based on open requirements which allow organizations to access the authority of their business-critical material. Regardless of whether managing or controlling, buying or selling, service or accounting, manufacturing or warehousing: as an extensive method, abas ERP offers each user with the precise tasks and data they need. 6. Z Suite ERP A suite of business apps with key functions of CRM, POS, and HRM, Z Suite ERP provides you with all the important tools to centralize your data and streamline interdepartmental activities. Primarily designed for SMBs, the Z Suite ERP comes integrated with all the vital features required to operate business development, without any worry comes with sophisticated tools. As all the information is centralized from the inside of a single platform, you can absolutely guarantee that everyone in your organization is going to work on a single version of reality. 7. Sage Intacct The next widely known cloud accounting ideal solution is Sage Intacct. Developed for small and medium-sized enterprises, this platform features integration-based ERP capacities, such as financial management, wholesale distribution, and retail management. Additionally, it also includes workflow management solutions which permit you to operate bank rapprochement, automatically generated journal entries, and trial balance. Moreover, Sage Intact comes with easy to use interface that both novice and skilled users will be able to catch up in a little or no time. 8. Infor ERP LN This one has a single code base for all systems and promotes integration with internal devices, such as the supply chain and the Web, utilizing industry-standard techniques. The approach promotes procedures from make-to-stock (MTS) to engineer-to-order (ETO) and cost-cutting methods such as flow line and lean manufacturing. Such a cross-industry solution delivers functionality to companies in discreet and project-based manufacturing sectors, including industrial machinery and equipment, high-tech and electronics, automotive and defense, and aerospace. Infor Open Architecture, the service-oriented technology on which Infor ERP LN is created, encourages users to build links with their supply chains through conventional, loosely coupled integration (J2EE, SOAP, and WDSL) and complete support for web services. 9. ERPNext It's a free open-source method designed by keeping a modern consumer in mind. It is created for small and medium-sized enterprises. ERPNext is defined as a sequence of applications. The software is centered on the MariaDB database system and incorporates the JavaScript and Python server-side frameworks. ERPNext enables you to monitor your inventory throughout various stores and is generally used for manufacturing, handling customer problems and helping you control multiple user roles at a time. The simplicity of ERPNext implies that it's easy to set up, using simple forms to enter data about your enterprise and guide you through the entire process in a standard setup wizard style. 10. iDempiere Business Suite It is also recognized as OSGi + ADempiere, an open-source ERP software that is entirely accessible to PCs, tablets, and smartphones, as well as customer relationship management and supply chain management applications. It is an all in one ERP, with everything from billing to POS incorporation to warehouse handling to predicting. Aimed for SMEs, iDempiere has a unique emphasis on the community that involves: subject matter specialists, implementers, and end-users. system criteria include the following: Java OpenJDK, PostgreSQL Database, or Oracle Database. 11. Odoo Odoo is exceptional among our examples of ERP software owing to its open-source, modular design. It offers you with the finest sales and project management capacities to begin and, as your business grows, you can then choose to expand the platform's capabilities by selecting the right from their wide range of different of apps. They cover a wide range of apps for MRP, POS, accounting, eCommerce and other company procedures. In addition, the system is capable of effortlessly incorporating with third-party apps so you can make use of your existing systems. 12. Microsoft Dynamics GP This one comes from the market leader ‘Microsoft’. It delivers a powerful set of features that address financial management, human resource management, supply chain management, and workspace collaboration. Also, it is recognized for its top-notch business intelligence functionality, which allows users to get prosecutable ideas into their ERP data. Another redeeming quality of this specific platform is that it integrates effortlessly with third-party partners, both cloud-hosted and on-premise. 13. NetSuite Manufacturing Edition NetSuite supports integrated inventory, warehouse maintenance, accounting, and financial planning, order management, customer relationship management (CRM) and e-commerce platforms. Offered as a cloud-based solution and delivered over all the web, NetSuite is used by manufacturing companies to administrate production orders, guarantee the basic level of inventory recovery and meet the demands and quality of special orders. Moreover, the platform also promotes inventory for different locations, inventory management specifications, material billing, work order management, various measurement processes, barcoding procedures and other required workflows in the manufacturing sector. Also, it incorporates shipping procedures with market-leading carriers. 14. Epicor ERP Epicor provides flexible, industry-specific company software to meet the specific requirements of manufacturing customers. With over 40 years of experience with our customers, unique business processes and regulatory requirements are embedded into every alternative in the cloud and on-site. With this wide knowledge of your business, Epicor solutions significantly strengthen productivity and profitability while lowering complexity so that you can focus on development. 15.Exact Exact is cloud-based business software for SMEs. It provides its ‘Globe Next’ ERP solution, involving accounting, inventory management, billing and payment, accounting, and much more. Globe Next can be instituted in the cloud or even on-site. Globe Next was initially planned as a software program but has developed into an extensive ERP system. Exact Software can help you with its established ERP solutions for your monetary administration with fully integrated business-specific solutions. Net neutrality is the reason we were introduced to #blacklivesmatter and #metoo campaigns that resonated across the nation and beyond borders. But net neutrality is about to take its last breath. After it gets repealed, various ISPs will be able to monitor and/or control what reaches the consumer. This is not something new. Net neutrality has been subject to its fair share of criticism. FCC chairman Ajit Pai presents his argument: “Net neutrality wasn't supposedly really about a "free and open Internet" because big companies use the regulations to control online business.” However, this is not the first time that net neutrality is under attack. The prominent argument in this case is that there is insufficient net neutrality protection. So what really happens The content that reaches the audience will be controlled for starters. Some websites would slow down while others would run fast. Some could also be scratched off from the world wide web. The supporters of net neutrality speculate that this might spell the end of internet freedom without many people actually knowing about it. Will the repeal to net neutrality end innovation? It will totally change the way consumers interact with the internet. After the repeal goes into effect, ISP providers like Comcast and Verizon will be able to slow down or block legal content. This is like pulling the reverse gear on “Open Internet Order” introduced in 2015 during Obama era. ISPs will also start offering paid prioritization. This will open doors for large companies to compete for fast-lane access, killing equal opportunities for startups and entrepreneurs. One of the important components of correct resource control is the use of the right metric to completely aid availability and utilization. Yet, it is without difficulty one of the most disregarded factors. As an example, metrics used to calibrate challenge hours and body of workers are very specific and tend to differ from each other. This makes it nearly not possible to be accurate even as making plans beforehand, especially for useful resource allocation. Introduced to this are the hassles of not properly having a standardized procedure to collate work hours put in by part-timers and complete-timers. This turns into a popular incapability to forecast the sources needed for an upcoming venture because the manner is infrequently standardized enough to head beyond a ‘guesstimation’ that spreadsheet figures conjure up. But if you hate erroneous measurements as plenty as we do, you have to be convinced that there are ways to count full time and full-time equivalent employees. So right here is how you could deliver aid measurement for the threshold of accuracy! Exploring Full-Time Equal or FTE FTE hours are the hours labored by way of one worker on a full-time job. It is broadly used to convert the hours labored via several personnel into the hours worked by full-time employees. On an annual basis, an FTE reminder is taken into consideration to be 2,080 hours, that's calculated as 8 hours per day, five days every week. Solves headcount problem In simpler phrases, FTE is a unified degree for personnel to be counted in addition to venture hours. When you mention the FTE, it's a comprehensive measure of the imminent work, in addition to the variety of human beings you intend to allocate onto the assignment. All at once, the confusion revolving hours and headcount is solved. This may create wonders in organizing the requirements of big projects that tip in the direction of being very widespread for normal hourly calculations, normally as within the case of software development tasks. Also due to the fact the industry tends to lease contractors on a completely large scale and has tasks spanning months. Commonly, this pushes them to hire extra or locate contracts expiring mid-task. Strong Impact from FTE However, FTE solves quite a few such confusions. If a protection undertaking is slated for 300 hours of labor, you can equate it to seven and a half sources running on it full time, for five days. You can rent 7 complete-timers and one component-timer or diversify as consistent with your wishes. As the challenge technique scales up, so can start equating FTE, thereby making it correct and compact. Assists in Long-term plans In addition, FTE in assignment management is a high-quality degree for long-term plans as it lets in for clearer forecasting plans. When you have a group of pipeline initiatives and are looking to make tentative however clear coaching for the future of your project useful resource management cycle, it's far easier to draw conclusions in phrases of FTE assets. Measuring The Hours Now how to measure the hours is our next question. The standard hours of labor for employees are typically both 8 hours a day (40 hours a week) or seven and a half hours a day (37.5 hours a week). Each enterprise clocks them for commercial enterprise as well as operational reasons and it's makes the most traditional metric. Balancing the Two While it isn't always course-breaking or novel, what takes it aside and makes it applicable in the day and age of sophisticated metrics, is the convenience with which small, barely unstable tasks may be measured, as in the case of consultation and Auditing related jobs. For example, whilst projects are shorter however man or woman uses resource’s cost is to be accounted beneath ‘billable’ onsite hours, clocked hours are of brilliant help. Together with saving a number of times for the bills crew, billable hours are easily a degree that helps you to set budgets for a similar project in the destiny, and allows reduce corners by means of letting you choose cheaper assets for onsite tasks. Further, clocking hours as it should be bringing in obvious advantages on your mission aid management unit, in phrases of measuring task duration, aid compensation packages among different functional components. You could pick to both use hours or FTE primarily based for your particular assignment requirement. The achievement of accurate forecasting is as a great deal approximately choosing the suitable metric as lots as it's miles about the process accompanied. Did these simple, yet sophisticated measures help you get correct useful resource estimates? Hypertext Preprocessor (or simply PHP) Development is honestly gaining reputation in web development arena. There are no second thoughts about the possibility that PHP software development is the most advanced and agile system deployed these days for developing precise and dynamic websites. It caters to any type of enterprise website. Functionalities that may be integrated into the website ought to be smooth. All the requirements of the diverse customers can be catered to if an internet site is created by a professional php developer. What’s PHP development by expertise? It's far truly the most favorite aspect the builders today would like to broaden the customized websites for their clients. This is because there are many advantages of the use of PHP- Preprocessor Hypertext. It's called a server-side scripting language that's extremely flexible and offers the wonderful energy to the internet builders for making almost any form of website and to cater to the desires of any sort of enterprise website necessities. Benefits of Laravel php internet development in growing websites are as following: 1. Easy Authentication system With using personal home page framework, it becomes extraordinarily clean to apply authentication and for the authorization of good judgment to assets. It is that obvious simplicity and hassle-free technique that makes this way of developing complex websites the ideal solution for web owners around the world. 2. Clean and simple API Laravel Hypertext Preprocessor affords a top-notch platform for sending in-app mails to the people via a cloud-primarily based or a neighborhood service. This is executed via the very well-known SwiftMailer Library. Further to sending mails, Laravel personal home page internet improvement gives support to ship notifications via very dynamic channels like Slack and so forth. An internet app is absolutely secured whilst it's miles advanced with the aid of a professional php development incorporation. While an internet app is created the usage of Laravel Hypertext Preprocessor, it's miles obvious that the dangers gets into the app on their personal like square injection, forgery as well as scripting. Laravel in itself is absolutely secure to use and it’s safety fence is very tight, no doubts on that! 4. Effective Log Handlers It means that there may be an incredible support for diverse and powerful effective log handlers. It means first rate for errors and exception managing while the personal home page utility development is in method while the PHP developers are creating the web apps for their customers. Along side the above principal and technical advantages, there's a key advantage that the web apps created with php are incredibly dynamic and top-notch. Even very complex websites can be created with a lot ease and much less effort whilst a developer deploys personal home page framework for the internet site development. 5 Faster and low in cost It doesn’t take a long time to get started with php as the gaining knowledge of curve is easy with regards to gaining knowledge of php improvement. It doesn’t take plenty investment at the part of the developer and is very low-priced for the clients also. It has all the functions and the web sites with remarkable functionalities may be created with php software improvement. 6 PHP is loose and an open-source platform PHP is an open-supply website development framework. It means that a combination of programming languages may be used along with this last programming language to create customized php websites for the customers in a totally quick span of time. 7 Inexpensive net improvement Because the truth that the personal home page internet developers can get without problems commenced with internet site improvement in a few minutes and that too without any funding. It matters that web sites may be created at very cheap costs for the clients by using the php builders which makes it the most preferred programming language of all instances. 8 Massive network of PHP developers Because of the recognition of PHP, there may be a large pool of gifted developers who're experts in the language. One will by no means face any issues regarding to that. Whether or not it’s the consumer or the developer, in case of any hurdle, you may take assist of the community very appropriately on line or offline! Professional Stress is inevitable. Everyone, whether working in digital marketing or any other field, has had to endure stress at some point in their career. Being a digital marketer, I naturally empathize with my fellow professionals who are constantly barraged with a variety of intense and time sensitive tasks in the modern day and age. This kind of emphasis on digital marketing and the ensuing stress on marketers is not surprising considering one third of the CMOs believe that digital will account for 75% of total marketing budget in the coming years. Thus, the expectations from digital marketers are all-high. The difference between the most successful digital marketers and the rest is the way they are able to avoid unnecessary stress by managing their time and work. Here are five ways digital marketers can cope with work-related stress. Categorize All the Different Aspects of Your Job It is pretty easy to lose yourself in the frenzy of different digital marketing tasks, especially if you are in a managerial position. After all, you have to take care of content development and social media branding, handle all kinds of SEO, PPC, social media, email marketing campaigns, and also stay on the same page as sales and upper level staff. If you happen to be facing these problems then you must restructure and update the way you do things. Use only one comprehensive analytics tool instead of juggling multiple at the same time. Have a solid content development process, plan and schedule special media and blog posts in advance and organize your SEO, PPC, social media and email marketing campaigns ahead of time. Assign different aspects of the task to separate teams, comprising of few but capable members and if you can, try using those all-in-one marketing platforms that companies like HubSpot, Moz, SEM rush, and many others offer and see your work get easier. Use One Tool for Instant Communication and Approvals According to the study published last year, most marketers think that bad work processes are hurting results and as much as 36% of the marketers are late in completing their work at least twice a week due to delayed approvals and clumsy communication channels. An effective solution then, is to use a credible management software or workflow system which allows for streamlined communication where every member of the team – from the boss to the intern – is on the same platform. Using one agreed-upon communication tool will dramatically decrease the number of emails your team has to send, reply to, and read every day. Raven Tools were sending 75% less emails about their blog posts after implementing a task-based workflow instead of relying on emails. Make Use of Marketing Automation Softwares Increased cohesiveness between the sales and marketing departments of a company goes a long way towards relieving work-related stress and pressure from digital marketers. McAfee, the renowned computer security company, achieved that by implementing a marketing automation system to help out the marketing and sales teams. The result was a 4% increase in lead conversion along with a new found cohesiveness between marketing and sales. You could be implementing marketing automation for your email marketing campaigns, drip campaign, and lead scoring & nurturing campaigns, in order to improve your professional performance, make your life easier, and avoid stress as much as possible. One caveat however, the use of a marketing automation software is only recommended when you already generate a lot of leads because if you don’t, your attention should rather be on generating leads instead of getting ahead of yourself with the use of marketing automation. Specify Your Goals It is not enough to complete all your marketing tasks. Marketers also have to track and analyze their every single effort and measure their efficiency and effectiveness. Any digital marketer who is held accountable for the performance of every single one of his/her social media post, is under an immense pressure and is probably getting insufficient sleep every night. In such circumstances, businesses and specially startups, need to set smaller and specific goals that have a realistic chance of getting completed. You can have lofty goals if you want and if you complete them, all the better, but not being able to achieve those benchmarks will leave you frustrated and you will have to reinvent all your plans. It is never a great idea for digital marketers to take on the challenges at all the fronts simultaneously. Content, SEO, email, social media, PPC, and other areas of digital marketing are better handled when prioritized in the form of timely and specific goals. Remember To Recharge Your Batteries As important as any other thing you will do in your life, remember to take breaks and recharge your batteries. They are not a waste of time rather a way for you to reinvent yourself. Scientists have routinely estimated that taking breaks at work increases productivity and helps a person remain focused on a task for a long time, also it keeps you from getting bored which is really important not just for a digital marketer but any professional. Get help of professional digital marketing company at best prices. You should try taking a few small breaks other than the lunch break and schedule them in a way that stimulates your brain process and are convenient for you. Of course, if you take too many breaks, your work will suffer so it is important to maintain a balance. The world is about to embrace a revolution after 4G. It is the time of the year that comes with big announcements. As the 5th generation of wireless technology has become the talk of the town, entrepreneurs are considering its prospects for the future of bandwidth and mobile storage. 5 G is set to serve as the thread of an ecosystem or web of connected devices and intelligent sensors. It will offer seamless connectivity for all business applications. 5G in the wi-fi enterprise, with arguably considered one of the biggest bulletins among T-mobile and Nokia that are part of a $3.5B infrastructure investment. 5G comes with better bandwidth and is suitable for Internet of Things as well as cellular technology by unleashing the expected explosion of devices. However, there is an unprecedented possibility that the end consumer might not get the promised results and benefits of 5G. That’s a challenge keenly taken up by Information and IT service providers. How we play our bit With every new generation of wi-fi community and the guarantees surrounding it, the industry underplays it, cell and IoT gadgets are essentially semi-related. Most users are uncertain about their usage requirements. Advanced coverage through mid-band LTE (as according updated T-cell US), and augmenting with WiFi and CBRS, enables path, however Arpatech have all skilled packages and services that supplied a good bandwidth for the mobile device from the network, or in a semi-connected state with high-latency. Is it a hype that can’t be fulfilled by 5G? Both proponents of 5G and IoT speak loads about computing shifting up to date the threshold, and the gain for packages when doing so. Brilliant purchaser experiences are handiest acquired from instantaneous, i.e. 0-latency, up-to-date relevant data; in truth, many applications essentially require instantaneous up to date records otherwise there is a chance of loss of functionality, reduced revenue, failure of enterprise operations, or possibility of consumer churn. The packages offered by 5G will have connection feasibility and it will lend support at a faster pace. With 5G, speed will not just be restricted to mobile and intelligent devices but will extend to wearables, sensors and even electronics. Even as cell networks can once in a while supply low-latency connections, and that may be a key promise from 5G, the community conditions can in no way be assured for devices that basically circulate in time and space. The “constantly related”, low-latency, cellular community does not exist; rather, the application developer and service architect up to date triumph over this impediment and lessen the threat around loss of sales, capability, and correct operations. 5G and IOT are related It needs to be emphasized that both IOT and 5G are cousins not siblings. The image below explains how the two are related. It’s interesting to note that 5G will serve as a catalyst as we witness innovation with internet of things. However, it’s unknown to most audiences how it will serve for applications developers and consumers in general. The fundamental manner to make sure zero-latency in updated records is through the statistics on the device or data, and maintain it synchronized behind the curtain. Preferentially, this keeps records accessible at all times, so that they can be processed and updated without the pressure of the actual-time connectivity dynamics, and the purchaser or enterprise utility operation can gain ROI, with changes modified. Mainly in a competitive marketplace in which purchasers have alternatives, they will unavoidably gather the answers that offer better mobile experience. In addition, commercial enterprise packages – cell packages, system flows, subject offerings, or IoT – need statistics at the brink to ensure enterprise continuity, revenue, efficiency, and accurate operations. We are about to answer that question but before that, lets get answer from Google. “Howdy Google, is it going to rain tonight?” If this question sound familiar to you, congratulations! You are part of the voice search revolution that has been making obvious effect on online search in the current years. Famous voice assistants like Apple’s Siri, Microsoft’s Cortana, Amazon’s Alexa, and Google’s Assistant have become increasingly more famous. Right here are some extraordinary stats to show that we’re now in the midst of the voice search revolution (produced through the 2018 Voice search for nearby business examine by BrightLocal): Fifty eight percent of consumers have used voice search to discover local organizations in 2017 Forty six percent of voice searchers use the function on everyday account to discover a nearby business 27% of online buyers land on an internet site of a neighborhood enterprise thanks to voice search 25% of online shoppers do not forget attempting local voice search Outstandingly, incredible? And this is only a beginning. The devices used to look for nearby corporations online are innumerable. Even though internet customers decide on smartphones, additionally they use this selection on desktops/laptops, tablets and clever audio system. Voice search is absolutely turning into extra famous, so corporations should modify their search engine optimization approach to fulfill the needs of people who use voice search. On this approach, you’re going to analyze the whole lot you want to about a way to optimize your website and content for voice search. What is Voice search engine optimization? A simple instance of voice search is calling personal assistants such as Cortana, Siri or Alexa for records on climate, site visitors experience, the closest ATM or the pleasant Japanese eating place nearby. It works like regular search, except the person really asks their question out loud, so it’s usually phrased as a complete sentence. Very clearly, voice SEO is an approach for optimizing your internet site and content material specially for voice search. Engines like Google have already began changing to deal with the needs of voice searchers; further to being a search engine, Google is likewise becoming an answer engine. You’ve likely noticed this modification. Instead of generating ten effects from a search query, Google tries to offer one, definitive answer to it (it nevertheless generates ten others, but places a particular emphasis on the one solution). For instance, if you ask Google what Barack Obama’s age is. For that, we use the “search by way of voice” feature (the little colourful microphone) inside the search bar. Here’s what Google came back with, accompanied by using a voice answer: “He’s 56 years full stop.” Sincerely, search engines have become “answer engines” because they are moving towards providing one answer to a query. Google has made it possible with the aid of introducing innovations inclusive of expertise Graph and snippets. Voice search, which receives an oral reaction from a digital assistant, has contributed to this shift to a single answer where viable. Of direction, it’s really too early to claim that voice search will replace search engine optimization in a profound way, but it’s already making quite an impact. [embed]https://youtu.be/_F4cUS6Ci2o[/embed] Staff augmentation is a form of outsourcing companies use when large-scale or vital projects need additional talent to complete. Consequently, companies enhance their current staff with experts who have specialized skill sets ideal for specific projects. In thriving industries, like IT, where projects are constant and high-volume, working with staff augmentation firms helps get work done, with the right talent for each project. The advantages of staff augmentation services abound; it’s a cost-effective approach that leads to quicker scalability for a business. For some organizations, these benefits are mired in confusion over how staff augmentation can work for a business. So, here are five amazing benefits of staff augmentation: 1. It Saves You Money Employing a full-time workforce for the purpose of working on a particular project costs more time, money, and energy than needed. Instead, organizations can increase current teams with dedicated experts to work exclusively on a short-term basis. This circumvents costs associated with salaries, benefits and other costs of hiring someone full-time– and who may or may not have the particular skills to work on a specific project. Staff augmentation gives businesses the option to hire for the short term, instant and precise needs of the company without affecting the quality of talent they bring on. 2. It Gives Companies Chance to Hire based on Specific Skills Short-term projects are perfect for temporary staff who only need to work for a certain amount of hours. Staffing augmentation services, then, give businesses the chance to hire based on specific skills. This affords organizations skilled talent at a portion of the cost of hiring a salaried expert for full-time work. Companies can recognize the skills or fields in which their permanent staff needs help with, and modify their staff augmentation to meet those requirements. It keeps businesses in control, and costs down. 3. It Lets You Scale Your Business Quicker Staff augmentation lets you scale your staff in an affordable way. By reducing costs while still recruiting top talent for particular projects, businesses can scale their business quicker than if they were to hire new, full-time employees. In most industries, an organization’s workload is ever-changing in size, while temporary employment is the ideal solution to handling continuing and forthcoming demands on a project-by-project basis. That means taking on more business without impacting the quality of your project. 4. It Lets Companies Retain Control Although staff augmentation is a form of outsourcing, it allows organizations to retain control over the skills and experience they need from impermanent staff. The major benefit to this is that businesses have the ability to monitor the development of their temporary hires, because they’ll likely be working alongside their full-time staff. This also removes other disadvantages to totally outsourcing projects to external teams. Staff augmentation allows companies to uphold the confidentiality of their projects, for instance, and make recommendations to the project in real-time. 5. It Earns You an Unbiased Outlook For impermanent staff, an ‘outsider’s’ viewpoint may be beneficial to a company with continuing projects. A pair of fresh eyes can illuminate recommendations for improvement to projects or practices that permanent staff may be too absorbed in their work to appreciate. This objective or external voice may raise output and ideas in the workplace. What’s more, every workplace is unique, and the dynamic from office to office is likely going to be different. For impermanent employees working on a project-by-project basis, the likelihood of them getting involved in any office politics is much less than if they were on-boarding full-time! For a fitting, affordable way to hire gifted professionals for the short-term, staff augmentation is the new name of the game. How to Choose the Right Staff Augmentation Service Given companies’ increasing reliance on technological solutions to deal with a slew of challenges, a scarcity of IT talent looms large. According to an estimate, 75% of companies will undergo noticeable disruptions in infrastructure and operations owing to technology skill deficiencies by 2020. The context of doing business has also become more intricate, with overseas offices, several locations, data needs that reach across the company, highly specialized skills necessities, and short-term ventures. No matter you are a startup that’s working to get a new project off the ground or a global Fortune 500 on the lookout for staff solutions in a foreign market, staff augmentation can be of great help. Here’s how you can choose the right staff augmentation provider for your needs. What Kinds of Skills and Resources Do You Need Help With? Staff augmentation allows you to access the IT talent required for your projects. Your vendor handles staffing, training, and communication, but they communicate directly with your team for tighter placement and agility. You should begin your search for a staff augmentation partner by delineating your objects, and see if you need assistance with a particular venture, rising employment challenges, or solutions in a given marketplace. What kinds of services, experience, and projects do you need help with? Precise project scoping will help you recognize a provider that can work to your unique provisions. Does the Provider Serve Your Local or Global Markets? Regardless of whether you’re working in a distant part of the United States or in several global markets, it’s significant to confirm that a possible provider has know how and contacts in that market. If you’re global, find out staff augmentation providers with a global influence. Coordinating staff across different regions or staffing partners adds unnecessary layers of complexity. Working with a partner that has resources in your key markets simplifies the process. Explore what systems they have in place to scope projects, identify needs, hire staff in different countries, and facilitate logistics and languages challenges. How Does the Provider Streamline Their Account Communications? Staff augmentation helps solve an IT employment issue, and dealing with IT talent ought not to create new challenges. When opting a staff augmentation partner, it’s imperative to learn how communications must be done at various corporate or global levels. For example, if you are looking for support in two countries, you should be able to deal with different account managers. In other situations, organizations that need a portfolio of services may find they’re coping with different points of contact when bringing on workers with different skill sets. Complex communications swiftly eat away at the advantages of staff augmentation, so you should find a provider that readily fulfills all your needs. In addition to understanding your company, you’ll have a simplified communication structure when questions, glitches, or new ventures arise. How Fast and Effective is Their Execution? Naturally, ensure that the staff augmentation businesses you talk with can meet your timelines. How fast and nimble is their execution? For example, waiting 60 days to fill a precedence role isn’t cost-effective. Staff augmentation should allow you to move projects onward rapidly. There are numerous ways to assess. Choose a nimble, effective, and customer-centric partner that brings results at the speed your business demands. The correct IT talent can help your company reach its goals swiftly, and keep your central systems operating at top capacity. Staff augmentation can help you solve complicated IT talent hiring problems. It all starts with finding the right partner. Answering these questions can help you recognize a provider to meet your needs today and tomorrow. What are Google Answer Boxes? A featured snippet/answer boxes/zero ranking is an answer to search query extracted from a webpage, including the title and URL of the page. Types Of Featured Snippet Text or Paragraph Snippets List Tables Videos Is there a difference in Featured Snippet & Answer Boxes? Yes, as sometimes Google directly answers the questions without giving any credit to the source. How to do Keyword research for Featured Snippet 1. Moz Keyword Explorer Login to the tool, type the keyword, click ‘keyword suggestions’, click “Display keyword suggestions that”, select “are questions”. 2. SerpStat Type the keyword such as “iphone”, add filter “Special elements in SERP”, click include and finally select “Featured Snippet”. 3. SEMRush Type the domain, Click organic search, Select featured snippet on right side. 4. Google Search Questions Simply search a question and explore, “People also ask”. 5. Answer the Public Visit answer the public, type the keyword in search box & it will provide you with a huge list of questions. 6. Related Searches At the bottom of search, you can explore more and related questions in “searches related to ‘keyword’. 7. Google Trends Explore the trendy questions via Google related searches in Google trends. 8. Quora, Yahoo Answers Search for your question and see the related questions. Select the relevant topic to further refine the searches. How to optimize for Featured Snippet Start from on-page Optimization; 1. Schema Markup The strong signal of higher ranking, thus more chances to get featured in answer boxes. 2. Content Optimization Create targeted & high-quality content with comprehensive answers. 3. Paragraphs Answer the query in a short summary within 40-50 words and use in <p> tag. 4. Tables Complicated/statistical stuff must be presented in tabular form and use the <table> tag. 5. Lists/ Steps Maximize headings in bullets form & mark-up the main heading by (H1) with subheadings tags (H2, H3). Is it necessary to Rank Higher? YES. Ahrefs study shows, 99.58% times Google Features the websites those rank on the first page. Link Building & Anchor Texts Create links with the selected question as an anchor text. Securing the Current Snippets Check current snippets via SEM rush or other tools and you might be already featured in Google. Secure IT!! If you really want to get your website in Google featured Snippet contact us to get started. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yKbE-cFMLcg&t=3s The future is all about ‘Ranking Zero” For startups and business owners working on mobile application development around the world, the number one question on their mind is which platform should I choose. Android vs iOS has taken the center-stage as Microsoft and other platforms are not considered by majority of the population. If you are new to mobile app development, you need to get informed on certain stats. This will enable you to take an informed decision on the choice of platform for the mobile app. Allow us to begin with a piece of universal context. Research confirmed that in 2015 the worldwide phone shipments were around 1.44 billion devices, with a boom of 12% from closing. This figure is mounting as nowadays all consumers are looking ahead to shop for an Android or an iOS cellphone. Android remains undefeated and emerges as the most used operating system because more brands use android system in comparison to iOS where the only stakeholder is Apple. This might shift your decision in the favor of Android but there are more factors to give a nuanced explanation for this choice. However, we're making this even simpler for you. Here are the top 4 deciding factos to narrow down your choice for Android or iOS platform. Target Audience Android has been fairly successful in emerging markets of Asia, Africa and South America. iOS alternatively focuses on top rate clients and markets like North America and Western Europe. Looking into information on the operation device utilization by international locations, we will see that most of the countries use Android instead of iOS despite the fact that we communicate approximately top class markets. To provide you an insight here are a number of the nations that we took into attention to look if you have to build on Android or iOS first. App Monetization Have you planned to monetize your app? Your modus operandi could be paid app advertising or an in-app purchase. Now here comes some stats to prove the dominance of iOS. Take note that iOS gets at least 45% more revenue than Android for in-app purchases. They have also defined consumer behavior as well because Apple users are 10% more likely to opt for an in-app purchase than their counterpart android users. Apple is successful with its niche targeting since its consumers have a spending strength 5 times higher than Android users. Does that shift your opinion towards iOS? Perhaps this will convince you. Retail App You can go for iOS application development also because its consumers are more likely to shop from their cellphone. This consumers with spending power also tend to be short on time. Hence they prefer shopping from mobile and contribute a good chunk of revenue to m-commerce. 23% of iOS users shop from their mobile while 17% of Android users tend to mobile shoppers. App Development Fee With android application development, the charges tend to get higher in some places whereas others will charge more for iOS application development. The bottom line is that there is rarely any certainty when it comes to pricing. But that genuinely relies upon your mobile development associate. As an example, we at Arpatech have the equal pricing for Android and iOS application development, as we trust it’s our activity to parent out generation without making our clients pay more due to the fact one platform is a bit extra complex than the opposite. A very last idea on the iOS versus Android battle As a quick end here: all of these principal mbile operating systems have their very own benefits and drawbacks. Android targets a wide range of consumers whereas Apple has a more engaged and loyal audience that enjoys better customer satisfaction. Sooner or later, what you necessarily want to do so that you can take an awesome selection to begin with is to judge your audience perfectly, apprehend how you need your app customers to apply your product and anticipate what the next improvement step will be for you after you proven a marketplace want and got some preliminary traction. Without these objective factors for decision making, your choice between Android and iOS could be biased. The era of manufacturing intelligence has emerged. In order to keep pace with abrupt changes and developments in the international market, manufacturing companies must employ business intelligence solutions. Thanks to growing connectivity and globalization, the manufacturing sector is more volatile and fragmented. In addition, manufacturing companies will have to implement business intelligence and analytical tools and solutions to obtain actionable ideas and strengthen their overall process. Business Intelligence (BI) can improve activities in almost all spheres of businesses by optimizing scarce resources. According to research, “69 percent of decision-makers believe analytics will be crucial for business success in 2020.” Why Should You Implement Business Intelligence in Manufacturing? The manufacturing industry has observed substantial changes over the last several decades. It is constantly evolving owing to technological advances. Companies are looking for ways to gain a competitive advantage against their competitors. Data-oriented systems are based on conventional ones. As businesses experience more and more difficulties, the demand for easy and quick, data-driven ideas are twice as high as ever. Manufacturing companies have been very data-intensive because they are often incapable of operating data wisely. Huge information stacks lie unproductive with the businesses. From actually reaching out to customers to providing products, by nature, manufacturing is a highly data-intensive industry. Business Intelligence (BI) improves the potential of these companies to make productive use of the information gathered. BI can streamline decision-making and problem-solving. When BI takes charge, all the production areas are transformed in a productive way possible. Challenges Faced by Manufacturing Companies Maintaining manufacturing costs small is a concern. Control of running costs-outsourced goods The intricacy of the network of providers and customers. Consistency of after-sales operations: installation, servicing, repairs, substitute parts need to be recorded, controlled and monitored by the system. Trying to combat declining revenues and overcapacity and coping with new techniques. Using information technology to control supply chains, suppliers, retailers, and customers to boost operational efficiency and decrease procurement expenses. Why Manufacturing Industries Need BI? Handle big quantities of data from a wide variety of sources, including suppliers, retailers, customers, warehouse databases. Optimize operational efficiency and cut expenses by assessing profit and loss, which include product marketing analysis, raw materials, vendor outlays and cost-effectiveness of varying distributors. Need to successfully manage and use corporate information: plug into wide databases and offer easy-to-understand insights to improve business performance and preserve regulatory compliance. How BI Can Transform Manufacturing Companies Rational Inventory Management Inventory control and management are among the most important practices of a manufacturing company. Many companies are introducing just-in-time inventory models to keep costs low. However, for this overall strategy to function, procurement experts must instantly recognize when sections and elements have to be reconfigured. It could also assist to track and decrease inventory expenditures throughout time and place. Dynamic alert capability in several business intelligence applications must guarantee that buyers are immediately notified when inventory plunges beneath required levels. It could also analyze production levels and profits on the basis of goods, departments, and retailers. Thus, all components needed for production are always on board. In-Depth Expenditure Analysis Manufacturers should reflect on both external profit-building and internal price reductions in order to optimize their profitability. BI tools may be used for profit and loss evaluation, revenue analysis, raw material review and thus help to optimize assets and boost ROI. In this situation, BI can benefit by finding new undiscovered sources of income and lessening internal expenditures. This helps an in-depth cost-benefit analysis be carried out so that manufacturers can develop plans that integrate manufacturing, operation, distribution, performance and finance statistics for optimal forecasting and planning. Also, it allows streamlining operating procedures through the management and monitoring of processes. With demand-supply evaluation, BI can regulate the value chain much more quickly and effectively. Sophisticated Supply Chain and Logistics Management With the help of BI, one can manage supply chain logistics by analyzing its efficiency on a regular basis and reviewing data to assure speedy delivery and quality service. Freight expenses can be monitored by recognizing changes in supply and demand. Moreover, it can help to optimize the importance of suppliers by providing feedback on their services. Thereby, BI can effectively analyze the performance of the delivery and therefore negotiate contracts. Installed-Center Tracing Feasibility To many manufacturers, maintaining track of where their products are installed provides them great advantages for post-sales services and added sales. Proper and precise installed database information is crucial if manufacturers choose to maximize their earnings from this source of income. The tracking and reporting capacities of BI tools effectively allow manufacturers to monitor assembled products, as well as the expenses and profits connected with after-sales facilities, to readily discover the most value-effective items. In fact, customers can set up real-time alerts for notification of maintenance schedule demands in order to take benefit of extended marketing prospects. Upsurges Operational Efficiency BI helps speed up the pace of operational efficiency by creating enormous quantities of data readily available and understandable. It could also help to analyze the efficiency of the team and suggest corrective steps for the accurate distribution of rare resources. Product designing by means of analytics tends to help to decrease and avoid mistakes during product development. By integrating feasible financial models, BI is able to examine the capacity and material requirements on a regular basis. More or less every complicated process from producing to shipping can be streamlined via the use of BI. From ever-changing business requirements to sales policy, forecasting and supply chain management, BI can take account of everything. Furthermore, it helps to increase the transparency of the network. Informed Decision-Making With various information sources, manufacturing companies have loads of idle-binding data. This requires the decent management, storage and implementation of all these data. That's where BI is going to help you out. With Business Intelligence, you can access a big, clunky database and turn it into insightful, simple to understand sets of data. Business intelligence enables decision-making because of the many robust elements that it involves. Those include interactivity, data visualization, data connection, mobile division intelligence, predictive analysis, and application integration so that you can make more informed and precise decisions. BI also helps you to forecast and test 'what if' situations and analyze alternate strategies. Evenhanded Cost Management BI helps in-depth expense analysis around diverse sources so that businesses can monitor materials, manufacturing and production expenses through multiple levels of data. Moreover, Businesses can reduce overhead costs by analyzing and tracking operational effectiveness and finding regions where they can streamline systems and processes. When appliances got smarter, they no longer remained tangible. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering into an era in which we will expect physical goods to take decisions on their own. Internet of things is not just going to be a pool of connected devices but a system of self-operating, intelligent servers that are a hybrid of products and services. However, this presents a serious dilemma for product designers who have to optimize functionality without damaging the aesthetics. Suddenly I find Einstein's quote very relevant in this context. Once you can accept the universe as matter expanding into nothing, that is something, wearing stripes with plaid comes easy. Albert Einstein Indeed the champ was ahead of his time. Although it was meant as a joke and the former is a bigger point to prove the latter, but in this case it literally makes sense. The bigger question is how will that affect the product design industry and the emerging brands in general. While this is the topic of discussion that I am willing to initiate, I have some ground facts that will present a clear picture. First of all, we have witnessed the evolution of the internet from the age of boffins and we are primed to set foot into the age of IoT. This is how the internet has evolved in a layman's terms. Currently, most emerging brands are trying to cope up with the pace and if they are lagging behind a few years then its not totally their fault. Technology advancements in the past two decades certainly outweigh those in the last century(proven). So while the emerging brands are struggling to optimize the user experience by going responsive on mobile devices, the big brands have taken a leap forward and embraced IoT. Naturally, the established brands have the first mover advantage, but there is a diverse set of hidden pros for emerging brands. Again, I find Newton very relevant here. If I have seen further than others, it is by standing upon the shoulders of giants. While established brands improvise their product designs, they will be leaving a clear path in their wake. With the application of the Internet of Things by certain brands, our lives have transformed in ways we can't imagine: Product design simplification In the name of aesthetics, various products have lacked functionality. However, with the achievement of connectivity between products, task automation will get convenient as a result of product design simplification. Empowering Consumers Consumers are progressively enjoying more power over products than was ever previously possible. For example, you can lock your garage door, if you forgot to do it when leaving while sitting in your office using your smartphone. Influencing Consumer Behavior Consumer behavior is about to witness an unbelievable shift after internet of things gets mainstream. Connectivity of products will increase the reliance of an average user on electronic devices. After this revolution, more people will use their mobile to switch off the garage door from a distance or turn off appliances when they are not around them. Functionality ruins supreme in product designs Fancy designs that lack functionality are no longer considered for interior and exterior spaces. One of the changed behavior is the choice of optimized product display. Luckily, some of the brands have already paid attention to this overlooked detail. The products are now designed to fit the connectivity offered in the age of internet of things. Internet of things is going to transform our surroundings and the revolution is about to lure more organizations making it a multi-billion-dollar industry. Various brands like Samsung, Google, Ford, and General Electric have made terrific organizational shifts, in an effort to absolutely understand what many are calling the next huge technological revolution. Internet of things is both interesting and surreal. It has the potential to create clever environments which makes it highly interesting. And surreal because many human beings nevertheless don’t realize what IoT is, what its method is, and why it’s vital to them. Believe it or not, its this very thriller of an internet of things that need to guide the next wave of IoT stories. As IoT keeps to go into the mainstream, it desires to raise past the technology, past the novelty of genuinely being linked. Right here are some standards that I consider are critical as we start to recall the role of digital layout in IoT: Set the stage for evolving UXD With the emergence of a touch display, finger scroll and swipe actions became mainstream. However, there is more to come in the age of IOT when we will explore more ways to interact with virtual interfaces. Interestingly, hand gestures will continue to rock but there’s definitely going to be additional moves that will dominate and become part of our environments. With VR, our moves mimic the ones of the real world. Simple head movements will be detected by advanced sensors. On top of that, we will interact with our environments with typical hand gestures. Voice search and voice recognition tools will play a massive role as well. Create stories with a context Context approach well timed and useful. Context lets in for reviews to be significant and treasured while the IoT product is aware of you, is aware of where you are, and is aware of what you want, it will only emerge as present as wanted. things will adapt to people, and earlier than we comprehend it, grow to be absolutely included into our day by day lives and behavior. Most importantly, join people! At the same time as all the above is critical, we ought to by no means lose sight of the reality that we are connecting human beings, no longer products. The future of IoT and the function that virtual design will play is already empowering and permitting people in methods that previously required a real amount of effort or inherit understanding. We’re seeing amazing improvements inside the discipline of IoT. The following step is for us to allow for user interactions that are predictable and beneficial, in order that this technology turns into more than simply technologies, and as an alternative becomes a meaningful way of interacting, predicting and adapting. We deliver our tales via digital and IOT will become the next big thing. Suffice to say that an efficient e-commerce web design is essential for getting more revenue on the website. It's not always easy to run an e-commerce website. There are transactions to be made, orders to be filled, and payments to be received That's why it's necessary to make sure that your bases are covered whenever it comes to maintaining a well-rounded website. Effective web design for e-commerce is integral to the conversion of website visitors into customers Preferably, the design of your website will make your purchasing process as simple, convenient and stress-free as possible. Regardless of how good your online marketing is, you might lose valuable customers if your website is not tailored for sales. Therefore, not only does the site need to look great, but you also have to get your website visitors to take action and buy your products. But how are you going to do that? Here are the top tips for an effective e-commerce design for driving better conversions. Simplicity Is the Best Policy E-commerce websites with sleek design have greater conversion rates. Take a look at your website. Make sure there should be a clear focus. Visitor's attention should be drawn directly to the CTA key or the products/services you offer. To further simplify the design of your website, eliminate all irrelevant information and use a minimalist design style with much white space. Having to adapt the minimalist design to your website will allow you to significantly minimize uncertainty, keep user dissatisfaction at a low level and provide them what they came for. Keep Clutter-Free Menus Menu bars enable users to quickly access the pages of your site and find out what they've been looking for. This is just the best way to stay streamlined and share what you're selling. Too much menu-clutter may seem messy and overwhelming. Numerous menu categories will confuse the customer, keeping them from finding what they were looking for. Your menus aren't meant to be very precise. You can use broad terms to classify your products instead. If you have a lot of different categories and pages to offer on your website, you may use the drop-down menu to arrange them more simply instead of having a menu flooded with a long list of options. Steer Clear Interruptions Your e-commerce web design should always be designed to generate sales. It's good to include additional details about your brand's story, blog or even a choice to website visitors to register for an email newsletter. Just try to ensure that these little pieces of information shouldn't interrupt people from making a purchase. One such type of interruption that affects any site is a screen-filling pop-up that asks to submit my email in return for a newsletter. Such a little mistake costs the particular e-commerce store a customer. For example, a form on your contact page or at the bottom of your website that people can fill out to add to your email list is all right. But don't allow a pop-up window telling users to sign up for your newsletter as it may have the reverse effect of what you'd like. Put Precise Product Feed It is highly recommended to have a feed for your product. You must ensure that you have sufficient details about all of your products for product feed. Or at the very least, make absolutely sure you have your product name, high-quality image, product ID, keywords, and marketing copies, respectively. Colors Catch the Eyes Deciding the colors of your e-commerce webpage is one of the most crucial decisions. Color is an incredibly effective tool — but if you know the psychology behind color, you could use it for your benefit and push some great sales through the process. Various colors can influence people's different thoughts, attitudes, and actions so if you want your e-commerce page to convert, you must use those color inspirations to your benefit. For instance, if you would like people to make a purchase, make the buy button pop out with a bright red color. And research shows that having a red button can boost conversions by a whopping 34%. Or, maybe, if you're planning to increase your credibility, add blue to your web design. The idea is, colors are one of the most valuable tools in your design toolbox — and if you understand how to do it, it may have a massive impact on your e-commerce layout. Testimony Brings Authenticity 61% of online shoppers report reading customer reviews before they decide to purchase a product. While designing your e-commerce website, look for opportunities to give your potential customers the constructive feedback you've received from your loyal customers. Nobody can ignore the value of the website reviews and Testimonial area. As it helps ensure you design an efficient segment of your e-commerce web design. One of the best ideas is to add product-specific reviews to every page of your website to maximize the experience of site visitors. When the people see and examine other people’s positive shopping experience on your website, be it through testimonials, ratings or reviews they will be convinced of shopping from your e-commerce store. This will lead to higher conversions. Make Checkout Hassle-Free A complicated checkout process is the biggest reason behind the cart abandonment rate. If a website visitor has decided to buy a product, they would want to check out and complete the process as simply as possible. Every additional step in the checkout process would increase their chances of losing the purchase. In fact, 28 percent of shoppers have said that they have abandoned a shopping cart at checkout because the procedure was too long and complex. Enable people to check out as a guest. The objective is just to get the important information from the buyer. Customers get skeptical when they need to give too much information to make a purchase and having to make an entire profile on your website could turn them away faster. Simply, take the billing information and shipping address. That’s essentially you need to process a transaction. Many of us have already heard that Search Engine Optimization (SEO) is a crucial digital marketing strategy. However, despite having a basic understanding of SEO, a majority of us might just not have a strong grip on this dynamic, multi-faceted entity. SEO is composed of a variety of different features, so learning what they do and how they work is important for understanding why SEO is so essential. Let’s start with the basics. What is SEO? Search Engine Optimization (SEO) applies to the process used to boost the ranking of a website on search engine results pages (SERPs) on platforms like Google, Yahoo, and Bing. Designing an SEO plan of a business will help bring customer traffic on your website, while boosting your sales and revenue. Why Is It Necessary for Your Business? The purpose of a search engine is to provide accurate results that cover the information you're looking for as easily and precisely as possible. To do this, search engines are able to determine and evaluate all relevant information online in terms of quality and significance. In simple terms, SEO is essential as it helps make the website more visible, which implies more visitors and more chances to turn leads into customers. SEO would undoubtedly improve the overall searchability and visibility of the website, resulting in increased conversions for your business. The following are the five key elements for running a successful SEO strategy to make sure people looking for your product or service find you online. 5 Things Every SEO Strategy Needs 1. Make a Mind Map First A mind map is something that tells your whole plan from zero to hundred. It is actually a brainstorming activity that is essential for an effective SEO strategy. A comprehensive mind map doesn’t actually define your final strategy; instead, it helps you envision your thinking process and ideas in one place and see what they can result in altogether. A mind map is essentially a branching sequence of categories, usually coming from the middle, going from more generalized to more specific categories, with concepts getting more detailed. SEO analysts jot down all the points that come to their mind and helps you think in a nonlinear way. A mind map is indeed a far more organized approach to streamline your SEO strategy and encourage you to refer to something that immediately clicks you to develop your strategy. 2. Provide a Visual Representation of Your Strategy Once your basic strategy has been finalized, you need to turn the mind map into a professional and comprehensive document to carry the operations further, keeping the plan transparent and all parties involved in the task. Your strategy is a plan which should include your goals and duties attached to them. Plan out which previous strategies to be repeated and improved, which ones to be renewed and task-specific working needed as the time passes. All of it should be done quickly and in a proper structure so that it becomes comprehensible to your team as well as your clients. Take Google Sheet or whatever you find convenient and make the strategy clear to all the people associated with it. Also make sure that you mention tasks assigned to specific people, priorities of the plan as well as details about the recurring, already planned and done tasks. 3. Understand ‘Who’ and ‘What’ You Are Working For To make your project a success, you must have a good understanding of who and what you are working for whether you are an internal or external SEO. You must be aware of both the strengths and weaknesses in order to maximize SEO potential. You must focus on the following factors. You must understand the company’s vision to help you guide your strategic objectives and metrics. If the vision statement of your company isn’t doing justice to your business. It is the high time you should consider changing it and devise a new version that can justify the purpose of your SEO campaign. We must first need to figure out the product’s unique selling proposition (USP) which means finding out what makes your product or service different from others. This will work as a catalyst for the strategy you need to plan. Moreover, it will help you decide the audience you need to target, the outreach, keywords, etc. You should know where your company is hurting at the very moment. If this doesn't get obliterated, it is something that would always creep or destroy your SEO strategy. Know what the business actually wants to see and likely won't handle until you devote to a strategy. 4. Know Your Audience and Their Mindset This is a key pointer. Understanding your audience can make you win the situation and knowing them means knowing far more than what keywords they search. To know your audience, you must find out the following: Knowing how much prone your audience is to the marketing, upselling, etc. is very important. You should know how hypersensitive or submissive they are to any sort of promotions. You must be aware of their conduct as you develop your strategy. Understand the level of knowledge of your audiences. Knowing them and their mindset will help you plan your strategy, subject matter and you can use the industry jargon accordingly. Who are you targeting is another important thing to consider. Is it B2C or B2B? Find out if your audience is familiar with your industry. Or Are they only concerned about the product you are offering. 5. Set Precise Objectives Keep a goal precise if you want it to be successful. Put your focus more on working sections and how they function along than on a specific dollar amount. Be thoughtful about choosing KPIs and metrics. Revenues are supposed to rise more than expenses. It is also helpful to establish a financial objective while setting up a time-frame. The approach is to pursue goals that will have a clear impact on the organization, its course, and future and the manner in which the business is run. The metrics must depict what's going on with the work pieces, which includes links and authority, rankings and organic search traffic. Conclusion You've likely heard these SEO tips already, but the main question is, did you really pursue them? They'll definitely help you to boost the rankings. Improvements don't take place overnight, so the earlier you begin, the better. Implement all the mentioned tips in your strategy and use them to run your business effectively. Undoubtedly, mobile devices have climbed ahead of computers. Today, more mobile devices are being sold as compared to desktops and laptops, and mobile phones would likely contribute to most of the total traffic to the website. In fact, mobile phones have already crossed that threshold for many sites and businesses. This certainly makes us think if we have a mobile-friendly website that can drive traffic to your website. Moreover, we ought to make absolutely sure that our mobile website is optimized for Google searches which can be done through mobile SEO. What is Mobile SEO? Mobile Search Engine Optimization (Mobile SEO) is the technique of optimizing the website for search engine traffic from mobile devices. This is a form of search engine optimization (SEO) method that makes a website rank for mobile searches. Mobile SEO Best Practices Nearly, half of the people do not search beyond the first page of the Google search. If your mobile site isn't at the forefront, users are going to look for alternative sites to visit. You can either use SEO services offered by renown companies or follow these few simple ways to boost the appeal of your website to mobile users, eventually increasing your mobile traffic. Make a Responsive Website A mobile responsive website is a mobile-friendly web design that automatically adjusts to the size of the device being used. It immediately presents the right design and changes the content to accommodate the screen perfectly. As a result, website visitors get to navigate the entire website from their mobile devices without zoom in and out or scrolling side to side. They would get the same view of the website just as they would on a desktop computer. Responsiveness is one major contributor to getting to the top ranking on search engine results. Since most of your potential mobile customers use a search engine, you must consider gaining the top position in search results. Besides, responsiveness spares your valuable time if it comes to updating your website. It is certainly much easier to update a website than to work on separate versions. Test Your Site It’s always wise to examine what you already have on the plate. Test and analyze how your website deals with mobile-friendliness. This will help you focus on particular areas of your website that will need improvement, and provide you with useful data about how you can make some changes. You can do it by simply browsing your website on different devices and see how it looks; whether the content is readable, if the navigation is simple or how user-friendly the overall web experience is. You can analyze the loading times and see how your website design fits the different screens. Another way to dig deeper is by using tools like the one Google has offered for free which will tell you if your website meets the mobile page standards. Enable AMP Google has launched Accelerated Mobile Pages (AMP) to make surfing a smooth experience. In simpler words, AMP is a method of creating a mobile-friendly version of your website which is done through stripping of content and removing unnecessary files and advanced layouts. These AMP versions will then be used by those who browse the site using a mobile device. AMP has become a huge success and has been implemented by many sites to ensure that mobile versions of websites perform efficiently. Although it is time-consuming, it’s worth it in the long run. Make Swift Navigation Users tend to stay more on your website if the navigation is swift and clear. Try analyzing your mobile user behavior and identify what they mostly look for on your website and customize your navigation putting their requirement on top. Keep your mobile navigation easy to use, tidy and simple and try limiting the major pages between 4-8. Improve Website Speed Site speed matters the most. So, the first step is to speed up the loading times. According to Google, ‘53% of visits are abandoned if sites take more than 3 seconds to load’ Thus, half of your visitors are expecting pages to be loaded in 1-2 seconds. So, you can’t get away around with the speed of the web site. A good resource is to use Google’s mobile speed test to determine if there are any speed factors involved. Some frequently suggested improvements typically include: Compressing images because huge image files can slow down the web Combining or minimizing code to cut down on the number of page requests Use caching to display pages more quickly Exclude Pop-Ups Pop-ups can be extremely frustrating at times and the possibility is, they might lead to a high bounce rate. Your ranking will be adversely affected if you have pop-ups that interrupt your user experience. Using pop-ups won't necessarily make or hinder your Google search results performance. There have been a number of elements that are being taken into account in the Google algorithm. However, when Google advises you that this is making particular adjustments to its algorithm, it'd be better to follow its advice. Now, get rid of the pop-ups. Utilize SMM Millions of people are currently using social media around the world. Social media gets the second position when it comes to the volume of mobile traffic. As a result, it's a good idea to use social media marketing to help your mobile website traffic skyrocket. If you really want to increase the pool of potential customers, you need to take measures to be easily spotted. Try and ensure all your social media accounts include mobile URLs so people can tap or bookmark for future visits later. It is, therefore, important that you must have buttons to like and post your social media content on key pages. You should also have plugins that link to all of your relevant social media accounts. A lead is basically a random potential client that every business is dependent on. One needs to know the ways to grab the attention of the clients, offer them value and convince them that your product or service is the solution they have been looking for. Most B2B businesses believe that leading generation matters only to enterprises that sell to customers. In practice, B2B's lead-generation techniques mean just as much. Producing quality leads is the cornerstone of a successful B2B marketing strategy, and building a strong channel can maintain a steady growth rate. And B2B marketing is a lot different from B2C marketing. So, what does B2B lead generation mean? B2B leads generation requires capturing and obtaining potential leads from prospective clients. But its meaning can vary depending on the goals you plan to target. It varies if you want more social media followers or when you want people to sign up for your email list – you need different lead generation strategies for different goals. While you look for leads in different locations, you widen the reach and gain exposure to new means of communication. Generally, however, all strategies work the same way. They help you draw more prospective clients to your company. Here are some of the most effective options that you should use to attract new leads. Content Marketing The most tried and tested way to generate leads is through content marketing. Content is not just about some words spread on the page. If you generate content for a B2B audience, you must add as much value as possible. It is indeed a great choice for businesses with valuable content to share: Articles Content round-ups Infographics Videos Audio content Webinars In order to make these categories of content effective, you need to do profound research on what kind of language you should be using; what quality your customers would appreciate; what they would like to listen to, etc. Study your target market and provide a high-quality copy of it. Doing so will help you gain search engine optimization (SEO) for your website. SEO is about growing page views in a usually untargeted manner so that all the future leads can reach the website via search engines. Try writing different types of content to attract the maximum possible audiences, as some people like to read while others just want to watch. Quora Engagement Quora is basically a question-and-answer medium which has a reach of almost 100 million users monthly. Therefore, it can be utilized as an effective tool to generate leads. You can answer questions related to your niche and become a guiding light. Quora can best be used as a great way to make a line of communication with people looking for answers to their queries or for some type of help. The rules of reciprocation will take place and people may start to reach out to you when you have established yourself as an authority on a particular subject. Search Engine Optimization Moving to number one in Google today is a lot more challenging than it used to be years back. The search engine has transformed the way we shop online. If you have a website, it must be optimized for search. This is how the site and your content will be found by 89 percent of B2B customers looking for solutions to their business problems. Search engine optimization (SEO) does not have any traditional marketing alternative. It is necessary for catching up organic traffic from search engines like Google. Organic search marketing is possibly one of the most valuable long-term strategies for generating B2B leads. Perform keyword research, write a concise headline, arrange the post with H-level subheadings, and add alt text to your images. Moreover, try to produce content that your target audience is interested in. PPC If you want to get quick results, Pay Per Click (PPC) is the right answer. While SEO and content marketing take time, PPC is one of the easiest ways to get the leads. It becomes pretty effective once you know who your target audience is. And, depending on the business you're in, it can be quite pricey. It is also crucial to understand that a lot of people are using AdBlock (or other programs) nowadays, so there's a chance that they won't see banners or other clickable ads. Social Media Although, having social media as an active B2B lead generation tool is divisive, it's useful not only to promote brand awareness but also to turn followers into leads. Another factor is that social media is an integral part of content marketing. Social media is not an essentially weak platform for B2B lead generation. Yet, it hasn’t always been highly rated in B2B lead surveys because most B2B businesses have an inefficient social media plan and are too lazy to employ an effective social media strategy. For instance, social mediums such as LinkedIn offers B2B marketers with the greatest example of leads. Nonetheless, we cannot ignore other social platforms, including the following: Facebook: Link to blog posts, post images, invite people to subscribe to your newsletter. YouTube: Provide specific cards that direct viewers back to your website. You might also include a link or two in the captions of your videos with the suitable CTAs. Instagram: Choose the "Link in Profile" code to lead users to a link that you can provide Giveaways and contests work incredibly well with the lead generation. Twitter: Link to articles and videos, share success stories of your clients and engage in discussion. Pinterest: Build your own boards for your B2B niche. Lead Magnets It's another great way to generate leads. A lead magnet is a piece of valuable content (maybe a PDF or a recorded webinar) that can be viewed, opened, or downloaded in return for an email address or other contact information. Lead magnets come in all forms and sizes; however, the thing they have in common is that they provide value above and beyond what is available to anyone visiting the site. The more useful information the lead magnet holds, the more it will be downloaded and shared. Email Marketing To make the most of email marketing, you ought to understand who you'll be approaching and the best way to engage them. Email marketing is among the few online marketing methods that never gets old. It still supersedes the top place on a number of B2B marketer lists for B2B lead generation approaches. Marketing automation is one of the main trends in email marketing at the moment, which has achieved great outcomes for several B2B companies. Marketing automation tools are essentially hybrid email marketing tools that link to your CRM and cause you to automatically send direct marketing emails to leads that are uniquely tailored to them. Although conventional newsletters and email marketing are still relevant, the ability to control more user data and use behavioral stimuli has made it possible for B2B marketers to get a lot wiser about how they target users in the email. Try to change the way to send the email. Old ads like "Sign up for our newsletter” don't really work any longer, even though the fact is that nobody reads newsletter anymore. They like content that is tailored to them and meets their interests and needs. Artificial Intelligence (AI) is a fast-paced and impressive machine learning innovation that has led to a far-reaching shift in the way new-age businesses. Mobile app developers and users now look forward to smart conversations in mobile apps. AI has a versatile multi-dimensional effect on the app industry, resulting in mobile app designers to incorporate more AI into their apps. According to Statista, “For 2018, 7.5 billion U.S. dollars were expected to be spent only on artificial intelligence (AI) business operations as per” So, How Does It Work? AI analyzes customer's behavior of app usage; it captures and stores the data. Then it uses metrics such as location, contact and the customer's everyday conduct to make it more convenient for you to use the app. So much so that you do not have to type the reply. AI has now become a key part of mobile app development solutions for years. Now the concern is, how does AI revolutionize the development of mobile apps? let's just take a look at how AI optimized the mobile app UX: 1. Smart Reply Smart Reply is going to type replies for you. It allows users to respond to messages with minimal interaction capabilities. It's just a Gmail response that you see at the bottom of the emails you're receiving. Usually, with little phrases that AI has determined are appropriate and relevant responses. The most common responses are phrases like "Noted," "Acknowledged" or "Sounds good, let me know." This innovation is admired by people all over the world as it has brought convenience to the next level. Therefore, smart reply when embedded in an Android application will save a great deal of interaction time. 2. Image Labeling Another AI functionality worth mentioning is the image labeling. Even smartphones that are now being launched are designed keeping camera lovers in view. Further pixels are also introduced to attract users. This is the method of identifying the different objects in a picture. You may identify various entities such as animals, plants, food, colors, items, fictional characters, drinks, etc. The image tagging/labeling functionality in your Android app introduces the label to the objects saved in the application. It lets people get images based on the labels that have been added to them. So, Android apps dealing with cameras and stuff like that can use this AI feature to improve customer experience. 3. Personalization Personalization is also an AI-driven, real-time personalization mechanism that delivers personalized recommendations. The AI-driven personalization innovation is in a position to efficiently predict the customer roadmap and can forecast the next move along that trajectory. An example of AI-powered personalization is Netflix. It suggests the videos that are predicated on your interests. AI-powered personalization takes the assistance of AI-powered predictive analytics, and so Netflix predicts the kind of videos you'd like to see based on your history of watching videos. Businesses aiming to make a progressive change in providing customer experience, AI-powered personalization should be your next step. Make doubly sure your next Android update has to be an AI-powered personalization update. 4. Speech Recognition Speech recognition is a further aspect of artificial intelligence (AI) that most enterprises have already begun to incorporate. This technology like to translate human speech into a language that is interpreted by a computer is defined as Speech Recognition. It is a technology that enables spoken feedback to devices. You're speaking to your computer phone, or device and you're using what you've just said as feedback to prompt some action. The technology is used to substitute other input processes, such as writing, tapping, or selecting in other ways. It is a way of making the app more user-friendly and increasing productivity. Businesses can leverage speech recognition to perform different tasks of their Android applications. 5. Chatbots Chatbots are the robots you ‘chat’ with for brand interaction purposes. Chatbots interact with the audiences and other chatbots just like a human would. It is basically a computer program that simulates human conversations. Chatbots interact with the real audience, and also with other chatbots, quite the way real communication takes place. It encourages a type of interaction between a human and a machine to communicate through messages or voice commands. Businesses looking to take advantage of AI-based chatbots in their Android apps are anticipated to see additional business benefits. 6. Face Detection Face detection is another great technology that is put forward by AI. It is a way of detecting a human face through technology. The facial recognition technology uses biometrics to trace facial features from a photo or video. It applies the input to the database of known faces in order to find a match. Facial recognition and facial detection incorporate artificial intelligence (AI) to develop a better framework for analyzing human faces. These facial recognition applications in the Android app help you imbibe the security elements of the app as iOS does. 7. Text Recognition Text recognition deploys artificial intelligence (AI) to interpret the text embedded in media files, such as images or videos. There have only been a few gaming companies that have been using this feature in their Android applications. Extracting text from images and videos may also benefit businesses planning to develop apps that create video transcripts. Looking to make an online store using WooCommerce? Here are some of the best WooCommerce plugins for your store to increase sales and grow your business. 1. TrustPulse TrustPulse helps you effectively target pages or products where you want to run a campaign, [REDACTED_SECRET] conversions, and sales. 2. OptinMonster OptinMonster helps you convert abandoning website visitors into subscribers and customers. 3. MonsterInsights MonsterInsights lets you easily track eCommerce data in Google Analytics reports, and shows you all the information you need inside your WordPress dashboard. 4. Constant Contact The most beginner-friendly, Constant Contact allows you to easily add it to your store and start building your email list. 5. LiveChat LiveChat, the best live chat support software, allows you to easily add live chat to your WooCommerce store and answer user queries promptly. 6. YITH WooCommerce Wishlist YITH WooCommerce Wishlist plugin lets your customers save products to their wish list. 7. WooCommerce Multilingual This plug-in allows you to translate your product and other WooCommerce pages in multiple languages. 8. WooCommerce Products Slider This important plug-in lets you easily create stunning product sliders and carousels and add them anywhere on your WooCommerce store. 9. RafflePress RafflePress allows you to raise your email list, get more website traffic, and social media followers with viral contests and giveaways. 10. WooCommerce Customizer WooCommerce Customizer allows you to customize things like button text, labels, fields, and much more. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CfV3M92bnsw&feature=youtu.be Marketing automation relieves marketers from routine and repetitive tasks, letting brands quickly boost profits. Marketing automation will encourage businesses to succeed but only a few ones have a grasp on how to make the most of it. Marketing automation refers to software that lets you automate activities and conduct communications with a focus on controlling routine and time-consuming tasks. Marketing automation technologies offer sales and marketing benefits that marketing professionals could only think of a few years ago. What Is Marketing Automation? Marketing Automation is an efficient software that serves to automate marketing activities. Marketing departments use automated software to minimize or even avoid repetitive tasks. Marketing automation is constantly evolving; when successfully leveraged, it helps drive transactions and generates more revenue. This technology works more than basic support tools and changes the job of marketers by streamlining strenuous day-to-day activities as more and more time can be invested in implementing strategies. Here is a list of benefits marketing automation provides your businesses. Generate better leads For any business to foster, lead generation is of key importance. Automating the several steps from marketing and sales helps render the team sufficient time to reflect on the overall strategy and generate the leads that are genuinely promising. It ensures greater opportunities and more customers Marketing automation can indeed give you a better, more comprehensive picture of potential customer behavior. Through behavioral tracking approaches, like monitoring a user's journey through your website, marketing automation tools can help the marketing team to comprehend the interests of customers and how they make purchases. Keeping their behavior in mind, strategies can easily be set. Keep a Track of Marketing Campaigns Digital marketing offers multiple benefits to your business and brings success. So, measurable data collected by efficient tracking and monitoring has to be used to determine the success of any marketing campaign. Marketing automation software helps to track marketing expenses as well as monitor marketing campaigns responses centered on explicit parameters of success or failure. Strengthen ROI Marketing automation also improves the Return on Investment (ROI) on staff costs. Marketing automation decreases the need to provide workers to perform routine advertising activities. It helps you to streamline your team and significantly reduce your staff costs. Now the streamlined staff is completely focused on strong-impact activities that add the most value to your company. This will strengthen ROI on the money you're investing in employing them. A/B Test Your Campaigns There is perhaps no such thing as standard practice that works like a magic wand for every organization. The same marketing tactics will yield considerably different results based on your audience and product. For this cause, the incorporation of a test and learning environment in your marketing team is important. Proper marketing automation tools give us the power to A/B test campaigns by hitting the button. It not only saves you money on extra A/B test software, but it also helps you to check your route to more sales. Predict Behavior With the help of machine learning, smart marketing automation improve product recommendation with the passage of time. As it collects data every time a customer tries to interact with your brand. As time passes you learn the behavior of your customers and thereby shape your strategy based on their browsing behavior, encouraging them to spend more. You can choose to use automation to drive demand boost conversions and generate revenue. You can choose to use automation to drive demand, boost conversions and generate revenue. Boost Email Marketing E-Commerce brands may dramatically increase the open rate of email by using the use of A/B testing in all email components. Automation tools store historic customer information, that in turn improves the efficiency of open email rates. Whether through optimizing the subject line and ensuring that the email is packed with the right stuff and even sent at the proper time, these approaches result in data-driven decisions and results Marketing optimization is at the very core a system comprised of actions and results. Besides increasing email open rates, it also triggers email offers. The behavior of customers triggers these campaigns which further change gears and create a constant cycle of engagement between the customer and the brand. Email marketing has long become the main focus of every B2C marketing strategy. However, when you align with the right approach, it would make it simpler than ever to take full advantage of it and generate more ROI. Make Better Revenue Today, it's kind of common that emails include a segment that displays 'other's purchases', or 'similar buyers looked at'. Such recommendation emails can be automated or customized for individual consumer purchasing preferences and recent browsing history, which is a powerful automation element. Gone are the days when every inch of data was split manually. With the proper automation in place, you can evaluate product purchasing data while also delivering up-selling emails that are much more likely to push conversions. Smarter Decisions Marketing automation relieves the team from repetitive project execution. It ensures that they have space and time to be innovative, thinks more creatively, and produce better results. Letting the staff reach their full potential in this way implies that they're well-positioned to boost the ROI of your marketing efforts each year. Moreover, by offering a single interface for dashboarding and analytics closed-loop monitoring, data collection and storage, marketing automation systems are the most sustainable solution for tracking campaigns and forecasting consumer behavior on a small business budget. Among the many benefits of a marketing automation platform is the capability to build a more detailed profile of your prospects than ever. A/B test marketing tools get you the strategies that allow you to perform effectively to fully understand why sales and marketing have an impact on the end result. Offer an Overall View of Your Customers If you want to take marketing automation to the next level. Sync it with the Customer Relationship Management (CRM) system. Incorporating CRM and marketing automation lets you discover in-depth behavioral analysis, such as the pages your customers browse, the kinds of content they're engaging in, and where they're in the purchasing process. As you get insight into just what your leads are interested in, it helps you customize everything from content marketing to sales pitches. In today’s technology-oriented world, the need for a custom mobile app has become more important than ever. They're very helpful to your business to step into the next level of growth. Everyone who uses a smartphone or tablet gets to spend a significant amount of their everyday lives on all these devices. Mobile applications bring convenience to our important day-to-day activities and have become a necessity for consumers. Apps also allow businesses around the world to stay viable in an extremely diverse and complex setting. As a result, competition for business mobile application development has grown exponentially as companies are struggling to gain a competitive edge over each other. Mobility A mobile application is fairly useless if it does not offer good mobility. As the name rightly suggests, mobility should be a must, and a great deal can be attained by custom mobile applications. Focused solely on your business, offering the data related to your business; this application provides an increase in mobility as well as usability. You will be unable to fully attract your customers unless your mobile application is remote or mobile. The custom mobile application development also addresses this problem and provides an excellent deal of mobility and the capacity to work remotely. Your business becomes more accessible and gets the remote access you need. Digital Records Mobile applications are designed with database integration which provides a reason to be afraid of data security. Although overloaded, the request is carried out adequately by any device with the passage of time. It provides service to keep track of the data at all times. Custom applications therefore also help to monitor the progress of projects and services. With thoughts and ideas specific to your customers, they can be easily apprehended on the phone for instruction. Such records can then be processed securely in safe locations and can only be viewed by licensed staff. This can help to improve transparency and better serve your customers as well. Project Management Other than attracting and retaining customers, the team will benefit from an app that functions for internal purposes only. Custom login to each hierarchy will allow access to teams, documents projects, schedules, and much more to run the business efficiently, no matter where they work. This is especially beneficial if you have a number of teams working in various locations. Every team will receive updates regarding their project. It also helps to send key issues instantly to all staff. Competence Irrespective of your business size, custom mobile application design enables seamless workforce coordination through the incorporation of multiple functions. Because business applications are custom-built to keep the business needs in view, they serve as a comprehensive app that executes a variety of functions and nullifies the need for multiple apps. Moreover, as these apps are customized to fit your working style, they boost employee performance and, in effect, business ROI. Scalability Basic apps are designed to accommodate a limited number of resources and procedures. In case the company has grown, these applications may not always be able to control the load. Custom-made applications, on the other hand, are designed with all these criteria in mind and can be scaled quickly if the need unfolds. Custom mobile apps are designed for definite business operations, control already defined resources and have excellent business development capabilities. A scalability variable is simply missing from regular applications Security General business applications do not seem to have additional security features that could place the business information at stake. Customized applications designed exclusively for your business may improve your data security system as appropriate security measures will be taken to fulfill your business needs during app development. You may choose on-site storage or cloud for your custom application or if you're a big company, you can make different levels of encryption to manage employee accessibility — such a degree of security is not possible for generic applications. Personal Getting a customized mobile app is the only means of ensuring the greatest and most fulfilling user experience. If you're looking to retain customers, a custom app is an ideal way to go about it since it's created with a particular audience in view. Apps and functionalities vary depending on your business requirements, but given that this will boost customer engagement, you can expect a higher ROI. Rewards A custom app brings value to your revenues. Including all the features at disposal, you can not only offer additional service to customers but also inspire them to invest more money. The custom app lets you take advantage of such revenue opportunities. Because custom apps often have the business requirements into consideration, it certainly acts as a multi-functional, far-reaching mobile app so you don't really need to have multiple apps. Additionally, as these are customized to your specific work system, business ROI will be improved in effect. Maintenance If you've been focusing solely on regular mobile app development, you're probably risking a lot of stuff on a developer who might back off or retire anytime. Thus, if the app developer discontinues at any stage, the whole project will be disrupted, which eventually leads to your current operations being scrapped. However, with custom app development, you are going to have ultimate control of your business, so you definitely don't need to worry or rely on others for anything. Your brand already exists on social sites like Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, etc. but it is not generating traffic from them or more specifically ‘leads’. The biggest misconception about social media sites is that they cannot attract high-quality visitors. When compared to outbound marketing social media has a 100 percent higher lead-to-close rate. So, let’s first talk about what lead generation actually means? According to Google, lead generation is: “The action or process of identifying and cultivating potential customers for a business’s products or services.” Therefore, it is not just about selling your product, but it's more about gathering data of your customers including their priorities, their pain points, their wants or needs, and what helps to make them invest in your brand. Before the internet, marketers used to send out direct mail-outs and gave out surveys in print publications to gather information from potential buyers. But thanks to social media, it has become much simpler and convenient for marketers to reach their target customers. As most of their data is available online, all marketers need to reflect on how to uphold the target audience's attention and convert them into leads. Be it Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, and Instagram. All four of them make it possible for you to reach quality leads. You may also make use of some social media tips that can revamp your marketing strategy. Here's a guide to help you maximize qualified leads from social media for your business. Strategies to Generate Leads with Social Media Select the Right Channel The first thing to do at the start is to pick the right channel for your business. Once you find the right platforms right from the beginning, you'll surely taste the success. Figure out where your target audience likes to hang–the sites where they consume content. Although, it's easy to assume that Facebook is the right choice with over one billion users but this isn't always the case. Yet this isn't always the case. Whatever technique you put into practice to generate leads can partially depend on the social media site you're working on. It is not about user percentages, it's about knowing where the customer is, so you can pick the right channels. Use Customized Hashtags In order to stand out from your competitors, make use of customized and brand-specific hashtags in the posts. It will allow you to increase brand awareness and produce high-quality leads. However, you first have to make sure that you use hashtags only when they are necessary and relevant. And try not to stuff too many hashtags in your posts just to fill the necessity. Hashtags need to be accurate and targeted. Try creating a hashtag for your brand that should be simple yet unique. It will encourage your potential customers to find you and your posts quickly. Also, encourage your existing customers to use these hashtags for improving your brand’s visibility. Run Contests There have been two reasons why businesses are run contests. First, they're going to get a lot of leads that can profit the business Secondly, this could be shared with more people by the participants of each contest. It tends to increase the reach of the post much further. Although it is an overused way of marketing the brand on social media, it still works. There's also a negative side to it. The leads obtained through this technique are not always relevant. Therefore, sorting the relevant leads is crucial through lead nurturing. You can either arrange a brand-related contest or partner with influencers and request them to run contests on your behalf. Influencers will actually benefit you by widening your reach and engage with the relevant audience. There are, however, a few important considerations while organizing social media contests. Use simple and clear language to write the rules and instructions. Don't forget to mention the criteria for winning the contest. If you plan to randomly select a winner, mention that in the details. This will help avoid any misunderstanding between the participants of your contest. Share Quality Content Through the use of social media, you establish relationships and network with individuals having a similar mindset and sprout your business. But how are you going to build relationships that you can convert to leads? The simplest rule to follow is to regularly create curate and post quality content that your target market enjoys interacting with. Posting regularly at the ideal time of day will encourage your audience to see and interact with your content, drive traffic to your site, thus generate more leads. Keep making sure you add value to your target audience and customers by posting well-researched, insightful content on social media on a regular basis. This technique will certainly make it possible for you to generate more social media leads. Host Live Videos Live videos are used on social networks like Facebook or Instagram. They made it very easy for marketers to reach their customers and generate leads. It's largely because videos are fun to watch, and they can be easily understood by all. Usually, people prefer watching a video instead of reading a post Through videos, you can easily connect to your target audience and get their attention. If your live video is persuasive and entertaining throughout, the target audience will consider you for a relatively long time. This implies that it will result in lead generation. You can utilize this feature to communicate the value and emotions of your brand so that your target audience can feel connected to you. And it's going to give them an opportunity to interact with you through comments. Use Targeted Listening Social media listening is about having a digital eye on the ground to know exactly what is going on in the industry, and who's talking online about your brand and your competitors. It is an excellent source of actionable insight, containing potential leads that try to engage with businesses like yours. By using search streams to track keywords and handles in your market, you can explore discussions people have about related products and services, or even particular features. You may then reach out to the people who are involved in such conversations to find a connection, exchange information that's helpful and form a relationship that will shape your brand as an asset when it becomes ready to buy. What is Business Intelligence? Business Intelligence (BI) software is software that collects, evaluates, and presents business information and big data. BI Leads to Sales The information acquired from BI can help your organization cut costs and enforce more effective processes, leading to higher sales. BI Improves Decision Making Research suggests that decisions made by using data, rather than instinct, make the chances of success 80% greater. Marketing & BI Business intelligence reveals what marketing campaigns and advertisements worked the best, letting you focus time and resources on marketing campaigns that increase sales. BI and Customer Retention According to verifiable research evidence, a new customer is six to seven times costlier than retaining an existing customer. Business intelligence software can tell you why some of your customers are ditching you and others continue to buy from your company. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=47waNtED8oc&feature=youtu.be Ecommerce optimization is described as a system-wide improvement of your e-commerce store, with the goal of making sales easier and faster. Improving online sales is the primary objective of numerous businesses either large or small. If you are running a small-scale retail chain or work for a huge e-commerce giant like Amazon, it looks easier to increase revenue across digital channels but actually it's not. Ecommerce optimization must be the emphasis of all online traders who spend a lot of money and time attracting and retaining visitors to their stores. But good traffic is of no use if it's not converting to a sale. To help you expand your e-commerce sales, we've gathered some ways of improving your e-store conversion rates. 1. Mobile Optimization Is a Must Mobile search has surpassed the frequency of desktop search. if you don't wish to leave revenue on the table, it's important that your site is optimized for mobile – and not just from a technical point of view. Be sure to make it as simple as you can for phone visitors to buy whatever you're offering. 2. Home Page Should Catch the Eyes You have just a couple of seconds to convince visitors that your store is the best option for their e-commerce requirements. A homepage that is impressive in terms of design and usability goes a long way in converting visitors into customers. All you need to do is to make sure that the homepage has all the elements that enthrall the visitors on their first visit. 3. Focus on Off-Page SEO Without major off-page SEO activities, the e-commerce store will not produce any concrete results. Off-page SEO is a combination of link building, social marketing, influencer marketing, marketing outreach, and paid marketing. In order for your e-commerce store to be productive, you must also have most of these strategies to implement and repeat. 4. Administer Out of Stock Smartly If there is any item that is not available in stock, it is better to leave the product pages empty instead of diverting the visitors to any other product page. The tip is to ask visitors to give their phone number or email address to get a notification when the product is back in stock. 5. Show Precise Shipping Information All shipping information must be simply shown as soon as possible in the checkout process. If you don't, most customers will run straight to a competing brand to buy the products they need. 6.Provide All Specifications of Products In writing product descriptions, add as many specifications as possible so that no queries are left unaddressed. As a side benefit, it will also help you attract the right buyers through search. 7. Use Quality Images Images serve a key role in selling any product Using high-quality images from various angles on your online store so that customers can look at the product from different angles and get sure of their purchase decision. 8. Minimize Cart Abandonment Rate About 60 percent of site visitors abandon their carts due to slow page loading speed. There are several ways to fix this, and one of them is simply through minimizing the steps the buyer takes to buy a product. It implies that you have to minimize the number of fields, show the credit card information box on the first page along with the address so that the buyer has only a single step to complete the purchase. 9. Provide as Many Payment Options as Possible If you are aware of the typical stages of the consumer journey, you must know that by giving more payment options, like new services that are becoming increasingly common on mobile phones, you make it easier for prospects to offer you their money. 10. Include Exit Popups One way to improve sales in your online store is by introducing an exit popup You can incorporate special offers such as coupons, freebies, and more. Not only will this increase the engagement of the store, but also limit the cart abandonment rate. 11. Don’t Forget Thank You Page The thank you page is important because users feel overwhelmed with a personal greeting which doubles the chances of a user to shop again. Moreover, these are useful in monitoring the buyer's journey through Google Analytics and Facebook Pixels. 12. Keep your CTA Prominent Make sure you don’t make shoppers wonder how to make a purchase. Buying from you should be as simple as possible. Thus, keeping your CTA buttons prominent and always above the fold. 13. Add Reviews & Ratings The majority of the people read reviews of the product before making a purchase online. So put the reviews on the product page. With this technique, Amazon makes the most of its profits. It has a section on the product review. When users browse the products, they pick those with the most reviews. 14. Pick the Right Ecommerce Platform The e-commerce industry is vast, offering both hosted and self-hosted platforms that come with its own set of pros and cons. Do a little research about the platforms available and pick the platforms that are best suited to the requirements of your business model. Lead generation can often be very challenging. At times we immediately click customers and convert other times we just meet the frogs, who just visit the website and leave no traces of conversions. An effective CTA button can help you convert. Effective website calls to action encourage users by offering descriptive tags, incentives on "tap here”, and concise guidance. You just need to know the right way to optimize your CTA button. What Is A Call-To-Action Button? Call-to-action (CTA) are buttons that are used in websites and on your landing pages to direct users to lead to the target conversion. This is the component of the landing page that should persuade the user to take an action. The basic goal is to get your web visitor click the button and get conversion. Based on your target conversion and website style, CTA buttons can differ in style and size. Here are some CTA examples: Add to cart buttons Free trial sign-up buttons Download buttons Be Very Concise CTAs that are too long and wordy are unsuccessful. Stay on point and keep the text nice and simple. Keep CTAs to a maximum of four words. Use powerful verbs and make the most of this small word limit. Some instances of short generic CTAs that work well involve get started, learn more, join now, and buy now. Create Urgency A well-known and successful technique to improve sales is to create a sense of urgency and rarity. It can be done in different ways, such as use of time related words like ‘now’, ‘today’ or you can also use words like ‘limited stock’, ‘last chance’, ‘sale ends tomorrow’. You can put a timer to show when the offer is getting expired. In short, create a FOMO which persuades the users to take an action. Personalize CTAs People are always attracted towards a thing which is personalized according to their choices. It can help boost the conversions by 200%. Personalization doesn’t mean putting your name everywhere rather it is the use of data or analytics available and then personalizing the words present on CTAs which greatly depends locations and preferences. Whether an existing customer or a new lead as well as other related variables. CTAs Should Be on A Button There are several different styles in which you can design your CTAs with. Among hyperlinking, graphics and images that are hyperlinked, buttons bring the best conversion by far. That’s because the human brain is triggered to take an action when it sees a button. Try experimenting with the design and colors of your button, but your CTAs work best in the form of any kind of button in particular. Put Fancy Button Graphics In certain cases, click-through rates can be affected by small arrows and icons on your CTA button. While using graphics make sure the icons clearly explain the offer to visitors rather than complicating it. For instance, you can’t put a star icon for the users who want to register for a webinar. Test Buttons It's imperative to test CTA buttons If you have not yet done A/B testing before. The call-to-action buttons are a great starting point as even minor changes that are quick to make may have major effects. Check position, color, design, text. Put CTA In A Prominent Position Always put the ‘Call to Action’ button above the fold to avoid people from missing it. Also keep the important information on the top. The additional information must remain below the fold, where it remains useful but not intrusive. Also, be sure that you implement the best practices for CTA button design. Check Landing Pages You CTA was impressive enough to catch the attention of the users but, as soon as the user clicks the button, they get directed to a broken page. As a result, all efforts are wasted. Therefore, once you're done building your website and email make absolutely sure you go through all of your CTAs to verify that the links are directing the user to the right page and that all the forms function properly. Use Contrasting Colors and White Space You should ensure that your CTA pops out from everything else on the site to be effective. The simplest method to do that is to use contrasting shades. This will make it look faded, if your CTA is the same color as the rest of your text. Having plenty of white space around the CTA helps to stand out more Size matters as well–keep the CTA text bigger than the text around it. CTA should be the first thing a user gets to notice on your website, so don't clutter it with lots of pictures and other distracting items. Make ensure that the whole design contributes to make it prominent. To Be Very Precise: Keep your CTAs short and push for "quick" action. Personalization has been a key to boost revenue. Cross check landing pages and ensure that your CTA content and promotions are backed up by your landing pages. Use catchy colors. Put buttons rather than text links or images. Never stop testing your CTAs. It's important to realize that there are some website design elements that can greatly reduce your conversion rate. Conversion is the method of converting from one form to another. In the case of marketing, it’s turning visitors into customers. Conversion is a phrase used to often define the act of converting a customer who browses your site - into a paying customer. Here are some of the most common website conversion mistakes—and the solutions to fix them. Messy Layout Websites that are chaotic are frustrating to users. When one web page comprises of too many items, they all strive for the interest of a user and add difficulty in the way of a customer’s decision. The user can overlook your CTA or a major deal, not knowing where and when to look, resulting in fewer conversions. If your web design is cluttered, the visitors tend to spend their time looking for what they came for (which they don't always know) unless they get overwhelmed and irritated. They quit without making a purchase, and they never return in most instances. To avid that, therefore, you should not clutter your website. Only the main image, primary headline, CTA, a concise list of product or service benefits and some social evidence to add credibility to your claims are the items you can use on your landing page. Moreover, include some white space between descriptions, images, forms and CTAs for effective product pages. In your design aesthetic, do not use more than three shades and restrict yourself to just one or two fonts. The key is to think first about usability and then about aesthetics. Use of Stock Images Images are a vital part of website design and visual media are synonymous with modern audiences. You have probably heard it so many times that more engagement is driven by visual content. If you want to stay up to the mark with visuals, use meaningful, high quality and authentic images. Doing so can drive you more engagement and conversion. Your credibility is compromised by the use of stock images. Never use the generic stock photos as they can give the audience the wrong message. Any image you are using on your website must have an objective such as pushing visitors towards the conversion goal. So, be sure that you use only real, high-quality and relevant images on your website. Unavailability of Responsive Website Design According to Statista, a staggering 3.8 million people worldwide have been using their mobile devices to go online. When people fail to use your website’s best features on their phones, they tend to move on to one that allows them to do it. Visitors to your website are looking for a full site experience, and not just an adjusted version. Most people use smartphones, tablets to shop online and perform different activities. Therefore, it is vital that your website adjusts designs as per the screen size of the users and get an opportunity not to lose the conversion rates. Doing so will move you a step closer to conversions. Unimpressive Content The content quality on your landing pages must be unique together with pleasant images that have an adverse effect on your visitors. The content should therefore be written with a clear vision that is simple for customers to comprehend and help them with what they are looking for. In particular, eCommerce website descriptions are mostly boring and have the monotonous context. Keep the description of your products unique with catchy language. The content serves an important part in attracting the attention of your customer when they visit your site. Therefore, you need quality and genuine content to get a high conversion rate. Unclear Navigation Irrespective of how visually impressive your site is and how many highlights you have included, if navigating through your website is arduous, people will more likely leave your website, resulting in a low conversion rate. Navigation is a significant factor which can bring your business either success or failure. This is why your website should have clear navigation with a crisp design and a quick navigation experience. Your site navigation must not be ambiguous, and your audience should make their way to the action you want. Remember, it is crucial for your customers to understand where they need to navigate, give them an orientation and make their way around your site. Unflashy Call to Action (CTA) The purpose of a website is essentially to act as a medium for communication or display. This isn't an end product, so you have to describe the primary and final action with an effective call to action. The absence of clear CTA on a website can result in losing the chance to convert visitors into potential subscribers and leads into customers. Remember that, the best user interface on the website should clearly explain the what, where, and how to the visitor. The purpose of a CTA is to get visitors, emphasis on what the next step is for visitors. It is a prompt written with persuasive words attached to a link or button. Make sure your content describes the significance of your products or services, together with a persuasive phrase motivating action, using a very clear language. The takeaway is to keep a perfect balance and make the most of CTA button. A perfect CTA doesn’t scream what it wants; rather, it triggers a feeling among users to take an action. Slow Loading Time A good conversion rate is strongly linked to a great user interface. Loading time is one of the major factors that can drive the visitors to leave the site long before they get there. It is absolutely necessary to improve the loading time in today’s fast-paced and busy world. According to a study, ‘If a page takes more than 3 seconds to load 4 out of 10 of visitors will abandon it.’ Finally, Audit Your Website! Another important thing is that you should regularly take an audit of your website. You must ensure that your site is up-to-date with new standards for SEO, conversion and design. After all, you would not want to make your site look obsolete, especially when your competitors are keeping up with the latest trends. Your first impression is crucial for your business. And nobody gets the second chance to make the first impression — that's the reason why your homepage is inevitably one of your website's most vital pages. The greatest design influence you to take action. Throughout the day you were clicking and scrolling, and then you stopped. It might be an amusing interaction, a stunning picture, or just something you have never seen before. You just get hooked. Your website can serve new and potential customers as an online gallery of your product and service offerings. An amusing website experience can take your businesses to a completely different level. In this article, we're going to show you some of the best websites with the most amazing designs so you take inspiration for your business website and may be give a redesign to your website. Here are some of the best website designs to look up to in 2019. Apple While talking about the list of brilliant websites, Apple can’t go missed. And the innovative giants have gone big this year. To promote their products, they have taken hyper-realistic, sensational image taken from unique angles. The website is inviting, stylish, simple and tidy, making it possible for the brand to show off its products and make them the central focus. In fact, this is their website's main purpose- selling and advertising their products. The design of their website has quite an efficient use of white space to ensure that as a customer, the product on the picture slider catches your eyes. The homepage is fairly brief, especially if you miss the footer, which will stop people from needing to scroll to find what they are looking for. Most of us are not able to compete with this. But selling ' high-quality product images ' is and has always been the same fundamental precept. So put the effort in your pictures and think from buyer's perspective. Airbnb Airbnb offers the search form for the destination and date that most travelers are searching for, right on front, to direct visitors to the next logical step. The search type is "smart," which means that if they are logging in, it will auto-fill the last request of the user. The primary call-to-action contrasts with and stands out from the background; but the secondary CTA provided for hosts is also visible above the fold. It presents recommendations for excursions and getaways that Airbnb users can book on the very same site as their lodging to make visitors more excited to book their trip on the site. Moreover, it suggests which of these deals are most demanding and famous among other users. Dropbox Dropbox is a great example of all-around successful marketing. The homepage of the company is no different. You have a subtly askew hero picture that attracts the eye and two CTAs — including one that uses a dark background to draw more attention as it is for the tool's paid version. The home page and website for Dropbox is the quintessential example of elegance. It restricts its use of copy and visuals and includes white space. There's a very straightforward marketing copy. Dropbox knows and understands the target audience and practice drills down on points of pain that directly affects them, including security and efficiency. Also, the navigation is pretty stripped down, with "Compare plans" choice. Seriously Unsweetened Less is more in the case of web design. A cliché, but it is one of 2019's most effective design trends. This brand of sparkling water has developed a site that is seriously minimalist but thought-provoking. It shows bold colors behind clear bottles, with a visual flow below that is easily scannable. It also features the entire X-shaped logo, emphasizing the essential brand recognition throughout the website. You make it easier for your customers by avoiding complicated interface models. The page loads faster, lowering the bounce rate and focusing on the motive of your brand. Seriously Unsweetened have used white space with simple but contrasting color schemes, focusing on minor details, such as variations in the logo, and using headers that clearly define each page. Lemonade This is a website that raises the bar. It provides insurance quotes in just five minutes using CUI (Conversational User Interface) integration. Lemonade is also an excellent example of a one-page website that is engaging and attractive. Spread with some well-placed action buttons such as 'Get Prices and Switch' which is incredibly easy to navigate. Ending with Maya which is a chatbot who interacts with you on a human level. She's got a face! Owing to its user interaction, this type of web design is really useful, and it evokes credibility. The transitions are also smooth, with answer forms prominently displayed. Writing the chatbot script in small segments is a simple tip, predicting every possible answer to queries. Also, teach them the most common misspellings for people. And while chatbots are not a new concept, they are thought to be the future interface. Medium It is among the best examples of whitespace uses. This helps make the tagline and picture of Medium's app become prominent while still drawing the attention to the darker section titles on the site. Medium makes it possible to register with your mobile phone — on the website or with a short text message. It's an excellent strategy to keep people interested in the process of signing up. Moreover, to get users to continue browsing around, the website uses social proof: the "Popular on Medium and "Staff Picks" categories let you know where and how to discover high-quality content. Leandro Pedretti The next visually stimulating website is Leandro Pedretti. The header of the website features a full video illustrating the design skills of the company. One click and you're impressed at once. Videos are quite potent. They try to evoke feeling. Much more than just pictures. And while you can, you reap the benefits of growing internet speeds. However, keep the text short and to the point, switching on auto-mute. It's like in your space trying to find a fish. Content is as critical as your website's architecture and functionality because it determines the performance of your search engine results, improves access to your page and positions your business as an expert in the market. And in today's content marketplace, the ability to gain leverage content for business outcomes is measured by both quality and quantity. Your website markets your business. If the content writing of your website is sloppy, bloated, or confusing, it will make your brand impression negative — and then you will lose customers, regardless of how good your products or services are. Here we have listed some do’s and don’ts to make it easy for your business to excel through content marketing. DO'S Do write in short paragraphs Since screen read speeds are slower than print speeds, people can skim the text quickly. Long stretches of text, particularly while reading on computers and tablets, are hard for users to read. Whenever possible, split your content into shorter paragraphs, bullet points and lists. Sometimes, work in some subheads whenever you can. Do an overall revision Write, edit and revise. Go back and think how to smooth the rough edges of your writing after you've created a first document. Chop everything unnecessary during rewriting, and make it simpler. Do implement on-page SEO Learn about on-page SEO. Doing so will help a business to ease things, whether or not they have a SEO team. Think about internal linking processes to transfer link capital to sites that you want both readers and search engines to highlight. Do read daily on ‘writing’ & ‘subject’ In addition to learning the topic you write for, learn about that niche in reputed publications on a regular basis. Find and follow the lessons of existing blogs with successful writers. A quick 'writing tips' search on Google provides more than a million pages. Whether from colleges or some lesser-known writers, you're sure to find something there. Do create unique content Attempting to give your content piece a new makeover is what differentiates your article or blog from everyone else’s. To attract a credible audience, this specific perspective is important. You may take inspiration from their style, but you don't have to copy that. Because every person is distinctive and unique, so they should possess a varied style of writing. Do interact on blog comments This is a chance to actively interact with people reading your work Not all comments have to be replied, but be sure to respond to those who do. Even sometimes just showing up and posting "Thanks for reading my blog" is worth it. Do post on social mediums Posting different ways on a number of social media platforms can let you engage with a range of audiences Don't hesitate about using social media to share your posts Everything that promotes the finding of your blog for potential readers should be a must . Do add visuals Although readers come for information and creativity on your website, they also need to be visually stimulated. Not every post can lend itself to an image, but take advantage of it when they do. Do your research One needs to have vast knowledge about the topic they are writing on, particularly in the B2B industry. To build credibility and justify your claims, have facts, information and metrics. To keep new ideas and content flowing, keep up with the research. No research should be directly followed by writing and planning. Do put links in your posts Whether you are linking to other blogs or websites that contain great information or linking to past posts on your own site, do it whenever you can. It will not only help boost the number of clicks, but also help with the search engine rankings of your blog. DON’TS Don’t lose your focus Make sure every piece of content is written for one single topic only. Adhere to this point and stop wandering to different topics. It is completely okay to discuss the related stuff; just make sure you don't mix different ideas into one piece of content. It hinders user’s momentum of reading. Don’t plagiarize Never copy anyone's content and publish it. I repeat, never! Instead, take cues, draw inspirations and create your own unique content. Your content is what inspires people when it is written in your voice of writing. It is what holds them there. Don’t copy competitors Everyone has their own strategies and different audience to speak to. The only time you must pay attention to the competitors of your company is when you are writing for keyword rankings or top linking websites. Don’t be inconsistent Keep on scheduling your posts consistently. If you are doing it twice a week, schedule them at the same times on the same days based on analytics of when that website typically gets its most traffic. Don't over stuff keywords Keywords are a way of making the content relevant, readable and search-friendly. But it does the complete opposite when you start stuffing in keywords. Don’t neglect the importance of title The title decides whether the rest of your work will be read by audiences. If the title does not catch attention, provoke an emotion, or make the reader want to know more about the topic, there are high chances that you won't achieve the desired results. Don’t follow other’s style Getting into someone else's shoes and being willing to write in just the same way is not what you should be doing. The writing style is the writer's persona, its own identity. So, create your own exclusive ways of delivering content. Don’t focus on numbers Nobody gets to read every word on the page. Readers have short spans of attention, and they just scan your content for the main takeaways Usually, some interesting writers are concise in their write ups. They understand the fact that to deliver thoughts or points, you don't need to get very descriptive and they avoid writing just for the sake of increasing the word count. Don’t expect on immediate ROI A lot of businesses or organizations expect to get ROI immediately in a matter of a few days or weeks. Any organization's ongoing content campaigns take at least six months (after some strong SEO work) or more. Don’t write for SEO only Don't write to please the search engine; instead, please your reader. SEO strategy is needed for what content is required, so don’t put completely focus on it. Although SEO is vital for ranking, the content that is written must be the main focus and SEO shouldn’t let you lose it. Don’t compromise on quality just because you've committed to writing multiple articles doesn't mean the articles should be sub-par reading. Submitting sloppy work is the easiest way to damage your own credibility Therefore, check for spelling and grammatical errors and establish a solid structure of sentences throughout. Big data can facilitate online businesses in multiple ways. It has emerged as the basic ingredient of any successful marketing strategy which has revolutionized every platform of the industry. Big data is constantly creating new challenges and opportunities that the information revolution has created. Predicting trends optimizing prices and predicting demand are just a few of the areas in which ecommerce businesses leverage data to gain a competitive advantage. The guesswork has been eliminated, and ecommerce businesses may now make strategic decisions about how to run their online businesses efficiently. What is Big Data? It is a buzzword which is referred to an immensely huge data sets which are analyzed to understand human behaviors and trends. This word has its roots in business management. Businesses are built on the base of Big data since buyers are connected with sellers via online stores and mobile apps. Big data, artificial intelligence, augmented and virtual reality have almost become an essential part of ecommerce scenario. But specifically, big data has emerged as a key contributor in bringing success to eCommerce. It has become an important part of all scale businesses today as it helps retailers to achieve their goals rapidly and effectively. There are many ways in which Big data benefits businesses. Some of them are listed below. Identify Customer’s Behavior By observing the customer’s browsing and shopping history you get to know easily what their preferences are and it can only be done with the help of big data. Once they know it, they are able to recommend the items of customer’s interest. The data is used to analyze to create recommendations. With this, customers have the benefit of looking for the items of their interest meanwhile owners earn the increasing profits. Not only does it help in understanding customer behaviors but also performs the requests of the large number of buyers within a short period of time. Better Customer Experience Although people have shown concerns personal data reveal. But in reality, the data is only used productively in order to improve customer experience which plays a crucial role in any ecommerce shopping experience. And if it is not up to the mark, it can ruin real shopping experiences. Because if a customer is not satisfied, not only they’ll stop coming to your store but forward their reviews to other people as well. So, in case of customer experience, big data can be used to analyze delivery times and help companies in knowing their potential and solve the problems before customer gets involved. Also, internet frauds can also be tracked with the help of this data. Price Dynamics Amazon is one of the pioneers in bringing advance shopping experiences. They use big data tools to adjust pricing. They compare prices of the products with other retailers and then adjust their own prices accordingly. Pricing is a key element in making any ecommerce successful because people always look for the sites which offer worthy prices. Hence, the best proposition offered is the dynamic pricing, which means the price should be responsive to the user’s demands and competitor’s prices. And without any second thought, big data analytics is the most reliable tool which helps sellers with dynamic pricing. Accurate Predictions Big data can help take a look on various channels of your company. Online retailers can remove the guesswork by introducing trend forecasting algorithms while predicting trends of what creates a buzz online. You can use big data to find out which product made the best sales over the period of a year. You can also measure your customer’s fashion or choice preferences which helps in predicting and thus creating better experience for them. Moreover, you can also analyze which colors, styles or cuts are famous which helps in keeping the right products in stock and offer the best rates possible. Supply Chain Management Right stock of inventories can be a big challenge for online sellers. With the advent of big data, this problem has been solved. You can now build an efficient system to manage supply chain. Too much inventories can bring storage expenses and risk that the inventories might not be useful meanwhile the inadequate stock means the customers will switch to other ecommerce stores. Big data analytics can help in calculating the optimal inventory stock along with the prediction of booming sell in the festive seasons. Also, the companies are making use of IOT to collect data on huge range of conditions to redefine supply chain intelligence. Every e-commerce development company is keeping an eye on these factors. Concluding Note Big data analytics lays the groundwork for new ways to deliver enhanced customer service by knowing and evaluating customer expectations and behaviors. Big data analytics also helps you learn the positives and negatives of your own business, helping you to build better product designs better pricing plans and better competitive capabilities. It has brought a huge shift to the ecommerce industry, but there are still endless possibilities to be explored. These days, all the major firms are opting for customized development of web development. It’s high time to build or update your website. Your business has unique aspects, and thus the look and feel of your website should be reflective of your brand. While your company website's look and design may be the first thing visitors note, it's the functionality, features loading time, and scalability of the site that truly makes you successful throughout the Internet. One of the greatest things you can do to ensure your business' success is to incorporate custom web development. Custom website development not only helps improve your business visibility, it can also help your business in the following ways. Exclusivity Using a website builder or CMS software usually offers you a readymade template to deal with, unless, you choose to have one built-in feature, which may be pricey. This theme enables you to put certain items in predetermined styles on websites, and this can create an impression of uniqueness when you are really restricted to the constraints of the theme. There's no theme with a customized website. The website's architecture is based on your preferences and has no constraints or limits on how the website looks. It implies that no two websites that are built, look the same. Such uniqueness will therefore distinguish your site from your competitors allowing you to create your site around the customer journey and concentrate on the design and development on the idea that your users will most certainly follow. Reduce Load Times Most website builders or CMSs involve a number of built-in functionalities. That is to serve as many different users as possible, allowing such systems and platforms to reach the biggest customer base available. The dilemma is that this kind of functionality comes with every website created using these tools, independent of whether or not it requires it. Website loading times are vital to your business which can be the difference between landing and losing a customer, particularly when customers look at websites using mobile broadband on mobile devices. According to research, more than 50 percent of website visits are abandoned if a page takes more than three seconds to load. Custom website development helps you to minimize unnecessary functionality. In fact, building each one of the site's functions allows you to optimize not only the functionality but also the design for these functions, further decreasing load times. Site’s Security Security of the website has always been a popular topic on the web. Through the use of an existing platform to build a website, whether it's a website builder or an open source CMS, opens up vulnerabilities which impact all other websites that use these platforms. It means that the vulnerability found on another website that has used the same platform, could be used to spread all other sites using that same version of the platform. The important point here is that many businesses that custom builds websites are also hosting these websites for the customer so the hosting environment will be optimized for the security of both the hosted websites and applications. Having to share a database or design platform with a number of other websites, causes you to be attacked. If a website with which you share server space is shut down or infected with a virus, Google can penalty every website on that server until the issue is resolved. Scalability and Flexibility Most of the website builders are neither scalable nor flexible suggesting their lifespan is very limited for any serious business. Custom website design offers customers with a user-friendly approach. Developers can scale the website's design process and make necessary adjustments whenever needed. At the beginning custom developers set up a proper structure when designing the site's roadmap. The website can be customized as needed or on an ongoing basis. Template websites do not provide us with a customization option, as many unnecessary codes that cannot be edited, create it. Open source CMS provides much more scalability and flexibility although it comes at a price and usually requires a professional or business to be able to manage the system. With custom building, you can build your own website with scalability in consideration. Freedom for Optimization The ability and freedom for optimization for your business is one of the biggest and most important reasons to customize your website. Even though with open source CMSs, you can do a lot this is the most crucial part. It should not only be a marketing and branding function to build a website. You can create whatever you want on your website from the start rather than going through thousands of functional and development choices. Including designing features that will support your business processes, you can also create a customer journey that best fits your business and customers. In addition to simplifying your customer journey, you can also use a tailor-made website to automate many of your business functions. Concluding Lines In a nutshell; here are some of the benefits of custom web development for effective management of your business. The design of your website will be unique. You can optimize your web design that best fits your business. The website will be more flexible and secure to the as per the needs of the company. The scalability of your website could be great. Your websites load times will improve significantly. Before you decide to go for either web design or website template, it's better to consider what's going to be more beneficial. It's also wise to bear in mind that you want your business to stand out among others. You may be investing more initially on Custom Web Development, but it can be a great investment in the future success of your business. Created in 2003, WordPress is the most popular blogging software. And for non-blogging websites, WordPress has also become the leading content management software. Why switch to WordPress for your company’s website? Here is why you should consider switching to a WordPress platform for your company’s website. User-friendly With an intuitive interface, WordPress is highly user-friendly. You can add new pages, blog posts, images, and more regularly and quickly. Easy to manage Browser-based, WordPress is very easy to manage as it can be logged in from any Internet connected computer. Self-contained WordPress is a self-contained system and needs no HTML editing software. You can create a new page or blog post, format text, upload images and documents, video files, and image galleries very easily. Full control of your site No more waiting for your web designer to make simple updates to your site. With WordPress gives you full control of almost every aspect of your site and can easily make those simple updates yourself. Engine of your website WordPress serves as the engine for your website. The look and feel of the website can be completely tailored so your brand can look prominent on your site and offer a unique experience to your visitors. Completely free, WordPress supports blogging and is used to run complex sites for large organizations as well as startups. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ikDNfuyjbMI Business Process Outsourcing (BPO) services are booming worldwide. With technologies evolving at breakneck speed, collaborating and working with teams across the other end of the world is becoming all the more important. What is Business Process Outsourcing? Business process outsourcing (BPO) is the outsourcing to a third-party provider of non-primary business activities and functions. BPO services typically include payroll, human resources (HR), accounting and relationships between customers and call centers. It is a sub-set of outsourcing that entails hiring a third-party service provider with the operations and liabilities for a specific business process. Nonetheless, it should not be confused with the outsourcing concept as a whole. With BPO, the difference is that you outsource a complete business function (for e.g., all lead generation), rather a single job (suppose, recruit a VA from a developing country). Most organizations adopt BPO for two main functions: Back office functions - A company's department which does not involve customers or the public directly such as procurement, payroll, IT services human resources, quality assurance, or payment procedures. Front office functions - A component of business operations directly involved with the customer. It includes customer support, marketing, and sales. Types of Business Process Outsourcing Business Process Outsourcing is not confined to just one specific location. It is a global service that works with various businesses around the world. It is categorized into three main categories: Onshore Outsourcing– Outsourcing onshore is performed domestically. A company employs or contracts a BPO system within their own country. Offshore Outsourcing– This type of outsourcing is done when a business hires or contracts a BPO business overseas. Nearshore Outsourcing– When a company hires or contracts with neighboring countries, this type of BPO occurs. For instance, America outsourcing Mexico. Benefits of Business Process Outsourcing How companies outsource their business processes is not difficult to understand. Business process outsourcing helps business owners to reduce the workload and focus on other fundamental aspects of their service. There are a number of advantages for outsourcing the business processes. Some of them are listed below: Cost Reduction Outsourcing reduces costs for in-house staff, particularly for recruitment and training and for accommodating local employees in the workplace. An outsourcing company physically located in a developing country is leveraging labor markets at a lower cost. Finally, outsourcing allows businesses to use variable-cost frameworks, such as fee-for-service programs, rather than fixed-cost models needed to retain local employees. Noncore Functionalities Specialization Outsourcing companies are specialists in what are considered as non-core functions of other corporations', empowering their clients with world-class capabilities. An outsourcing company that invests in advanced processes and technology can provide its clients with cutting-edge developments. For instance, a game design company might not want to pay for the latest payroll program on the market, but an outsourcing company that offers payroll services will probably make the investment to improve both its own efficiency and that of its customers. Global Expansion Existing hurdles such as language barriers and discrepancies in marketing strategies can be a challenge for most companies due to the diversity of cultures. Business process outsourcing can be a strength as a business may easily find local partners with native workers to overcome cultural and linguistic differences between two businesses from different countries. For example, if you chose to join the French market, then you would have a very difficult time getting started; you can’t recruit the American sales team because of the language barrier. Therefore, to actually start a regional department, you will have to bring someone from the company management. This leads to some other concerns – although the official company is fluent in the language, it is doubtful that they will understand how the market works in that particular country. Therefore, having a local partner company with a local workforce is better. They already have the understanding of how the market is working, as well as getting on their hand the understanding of language and culture. Speed and Efficiency Organizations that outsource processes tend to encourage experts to handle certain tasks, save time, increase reliability, and maximize efficiency. A BPO specialized in record keeping, for example, can automatically catalog files, make them available for retrieval and keep an organization in accordance with legal requirements. This substitute manual entry and storage of data. Customer Service and Feedback Many BPO workers have direct contact with customers, which allows them to provide a first-hand input on goods and services. In addition, this important feedback helps the company improve its products. The BPO business would also manage voicemail systems, appointment scheduling, email services, marketing system, telemarketing, surveys payment processing, order processing, quality assurance, customer support, contract maintenance, and other feedback from customers. Competitive Advantage Companies employing BPO services have become more competitive owing to the expansion to global and local markets. It is because with greater accuracy, efficiency and speed, the BPO provider executes the processes. all operations are done on the best possible level. Latest Updated Technologies It is very expensive to purchase a licensed version of the latest software and other technologies. This solution is also costly, especially for small- to medium-sized enterprises that are unable to afford to purchase the latest technologies on a shoestring budget. Thus, staying updated with the latest developments is challenging for a business. Outsourcing with companies that already have access to the technology and therefore have the necessary skills is more effective to international organizations. Looking into The Future BPO industry has seen tremendous growth over the years due to the numerous advantages. It is estimated that this progress will also be seen in the coming years. The BPO industry is currently responsible for generating the second highest number of jobs, and the worldwide BPO market is expected to hit a whopping $400 billion by 2020. Currently, with in-depth data analytics at their disposal, international businesses are prepared to substantially improve their products and services, while ensuring that professional outsourcing service providers take good care of backend tasks. Because of this, opting for BPO services in the near future will become a desirable solution for small- and medium-sized businesses alike. Facebook business pages help improve your business’s visibility, build an online presence, and allow more than 2 billion people to find your business and its offerings. There are many ways to ramp up your Facebook business page. In fact, most of them take only a few minutes to give you a chance to get more attention, reach and engagement. Trick Out Your CTA At the top right of the page is the call-to-action (CTA) button. Make absolutely sure that it directs visitors in the right direction. Convey the action you want people to take through CTA, "Sign up" to an email or coupon, "Send Message" to reach you directly "Book Now" to make appointments, "Shop Now" to send visitors to your storefront. Pick the best CTA to make sure people are intrigued to take the action. Tailor the Tabs A collection of tabs will be provided once the appropriate template is selected. On the left flank side of the business page, you can find tabs and guide people to learn more about your business or maybe to pick up a deal. Also make sure the right tabs are "on" and the "off" tabs are not in use. It's also recommended to ensure you have information available in the tabs that are on. In order of preference, tabs can then be organized. Tabs are a great way to share information in real time. Pin Your New Updates to Your Timeline Facebook lets you pin a picture to the top of your page. It's the first picture users will see upon opening your Facebook page. Although it won't make a significant difference on its own, with other tweaks on this post it can help revive your Facebook page. You may also change it daily, so whenever you have a new blog post or product or event featured, you can pin it on the top. Put Video on Cover A video can be posted on a cover offering a great space for people to communicate a message instantly. Make a short video outlining your goods, services, sales, testimonials, or anything you want people to know about your brand; the cover video gives you a chance to get your message across. Leverage Recommendations Help more people discover your business and start building social proof by including Facebook Recommendations to your business page. Apart from a five-star rating, there is an updated tool which allows fans and followers to post text, pictures and tags directly on your page, allowing others to see, offer better feedback and provide details about their experience with your organization. Customize the Template Facebook offers settings for selecting a recommended model based on your type of business. Templates include services, movies, shopping, business venues, nonprofit, law, restaurants & cafes, video site, etc. Announce a Giveaway Facebook contests and giveaways are great ways to show appreciation to followers. Competitions also serve well enough to re-engage fans with your page. Get the most out of Messenger Facebook Messenger is a popular medium for users to interact directly with your business. In fact, Facebook has expanded the Business Page Messenger to support round-the-clock customer service and responsiveness. Once messaging is activated on your page, brands can create pre-set greetings and automatic replies to support you in off-hours and remain available to people with relevant feedback or inquiries. The big day of Google Stadia is just around the corner. As announced on Stadia's official Twitter account back in October, Google Stadia will drop on November 19. Imagine a world where you don't have to play the next big release title with extravagant gaming equipment. A world where everything you need to do to begin gaming is to open your browser pick a player, and start gaming – no waiting for the longer download. This will actually become a reality if Google's cloud gaming service, Stadia, fulfills its commitments – from opening a Chrome tab to playing a 4 K, 60fps player, everything done in 5 seconds - no installation needed! At launch, Google has promised support for desktop, laptops, tablets, and smartphones – but just to initiate the Pixel series – without a hardware device, with games powered by Google's own data centers instead. The cloud computing ability of Stadia, as revealed, is the equivalent of a console running at 10.7 GPU teraflops’, which is more than the average PS4 Pro and Xbox One X. Google Stadia could prove to be an absolute game-changer. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DuSCG-xUUkA It is estimated that by 2020, more than 50% of the searches will be done without keyboards or screens. Voice assistant technology is transforming the face of e-commerce. Through voice tech, businesses have made it conceivable for clients to accumulate information, make purchases at any time by talking to devices in a natural, human-like way. It has made life easier for customers as well as enterprises. It helps improve customer service and provides a more personalized, hassle-free shopping experience to consumers. Many of the world’s largest technology companies, such as Microsoft, Alibaba, Apple, Amazon, and Google, are investing heavily in this field. The development of Popular Voice Search Assistants like Siri, Alexa, and others is a great move towards e-commerce. Apple’s Siri is one of the pioneers which performed basic useful commands like voice commerce transactions, buying tickets for a movie, or making reservations for dinner. Smart devices owners are utilizing their Alexas, Siris, or Cortanas in our rising voice-first world. But why is voice-based interfacing so famous? Using voice assistant liberates and increases productivity to a degree not conceivable with mechanical interfacing alone. It is so comforting to sit at home and command “Alexa, order a burger for me from KFC”. This six-word command replaces the troublesome mechanical and cognitive steps of requesting through the internet or phone. Frictionless Searches There are various benefits of voice technology. From browsing products, making purchases to communicating with the customer services team, voice tech offers these and more to customers. Because of the already existing home-based voice assistants, people have become more confident with regard to voice-activated search. Moreover, voice search brings convenience to customers and also gives retailers the opportunity to sell more and know more about purchases. Checkouts Check-out free shopping is already taking place on many platforms. Voice is now used as a verification tool for online payments, putting e-commerce a step ahead and making theft almost impossible. Therefore, using voice biometrics for customer identity is more secure than any other method. It is beneficial for both retailers and for customers since they become least receptive to any type of frauds and help retailers in the compliance of regulations. Customer Services While we cannot neglect the worth of human communication, there are good reasons to use voice tech in customer services and help centers. Voice technology helps strengthen the efficiency of your e-commerce store by helping you automate multiple processes which save money as well as makes the procedure frictionless for the customers. Personal identification gets much quicker without the requirement of passwords or security questions, which implies that calls won’t take much longer and call waiting times will become. It not only brings ease to the consumers to get through in the first place, but it is also faster, which ultimately contributes to improved customer service. The Ultimate Personalization With the use of substantial accuracy, natural language-driven algorithms, automated voice recognition tools; retailers make learned judgments about the age, gender, location and even the mood of the speaker. All the data collected from the voice tech tools is highly valuable since you get to identify the customer without barely knowing any previous purchase histories or getting access to digital footprint data. Through this, a shopping journey is immediately tailored for each customer, even if they are new ones. Besides, businesses leading to better conversion and retention rates. It also helps in delivering the most relevant and enhanced user experiences. Voice technology has presented a unique opportunity for retail and e-commerce and it is a great chance of improved reputation and revenue. It will put the businesses at the forefront and will set to take the most benefit as they start to embed voice technology into their e-commerce stores. With all this, businesses get to know their customers better through the data collected by the smart voice recognition tools and therefore they are able to create an immensely convenient and personalized shopping experience for every customer. Voice Technology in Practice To improve customer experience, some well-known brands are already using voice technology. Voice Tech in Leisure and Hospitality Hilton joined with IBM have assigned a digital concierge. ‘Connie”, who answers client questions like “Where is the Elm conference room?” or “What time does the buffet start?” At the Henna na Lodging in Nagasaki, Japan, you’ll see a front desk where you'll find robots instead of humans. These robots use facial expressions and voice recognizing software to help you with check-in. They can translate languages and have wide information on the area. The travel portal, Kayak, also employs voice-enabled, natural language technology to assist travelers in finding their next trip. Leisure businesses are built on pampering the clients with round-the-clock facilities. You won’t even have to move a little, not even swiping for obtaining data on your phone. Tourists build a very personalized experience, all the way down to obtaining data in your neighborhood language, to finding the closest family-friendly eatery in your budget. Voice Tech Smart Homes Whirlpool has collaborated with Alexa for voice-activated machines. The tech smartness has reached to the extent where you can ask your oven how long it will take and it is going to remind you that your cake is ready. Amazon is in a race with Google Assistant and Apple Siri-powered Homepod to supply the finest voice-controlled smartphone. At this point, there are more particular players — like Canada’s Ecobee vs Settle. The Japanese company Gatebox has made a holographic anime character who can identify voice commands and can do almost everything like she will tell you that your bedtime is over, remind you to bring an umbrella because it is raining outside, as well as set your home temperature and lighting levels. Till now, voice technology and IoT have guaranteed a unique level of comfort and customization. Voice Tech in Banking Let’s ditch the method of providing PINS and being pushed from one department to another. The Spanish bank Santanders app offers you the access to log in and give a quick voice command: “Pay Paulo $100 tomorrow.” This app can execute your command. You'll be able to inquire for your most recent transactions and also report a misplaced card. Moreover, “Nina” who is a smart virtual assistant of the Swedish retail bank Swedbank, can answer site questions/queries in a conversational way. Apart from these examples, many banks are also utilizing voice biometrics to approve your identity once you call. Where your voice becomes your password, which eliminates the hassle clients encounter when they have to verify their information and explain their concerns to customer representatives. You don’t need to type or scroll through the sites. Just call out to your digital assistants and ask for what you want. Last Words It is not surprising that brands are now using and investing in voice technology. According to a study, 30% of business executives are already using this technology. All the smart IoT devices will function through voice technology instead of screens. Therefore, voice technology is bound to be the next big thing in the realm of technology. There's a lot of work going in the world of application UI design. Any choice made will play a significant role in the success of an app. Your mobile applications need a functional design that enhances user experience and encourages your audience to get engaged. An impressive mobile UI design must have effective user-friendly functionality from the user’s point of view and the app must be easy to use. There are only a few mobile application development companies who are providing exceptional UI design interfaces. Here we have gathered some of the best mobile app UI designs. These designs are highly impressive and I am sure they will spark some inspiration. Whether or not you are designing a mobile app or not; these mobile app UIs are bound to inspire you to create something incredible. Let’s take a look. Snapseed by Google Snapseed is Google's comprehensive app for photo editing. My favorite photo editing is the option to go back and re-edit based on the saves you've made before. Snapseed’s sleek design and easy navigation catches attention of the users immediately. Halide Thanks to cutting edge technology, everyone immediately becomes a photographer with a smartphone Halide's incredibly smooth design lets you to easily take amazing photos with gesture-based UI, Augmented Reality image viewing (with dual cameras), smart focus peaking, among many other cool features. Awesome Note 2 by BRID Amazing Note 2 incorporates great scheduling with notes, including pictures, voice recording, and even sketches. With folders to arrange your notes and to-do lists, the design of Awesome Note 2 becomes as granular as you would like. Keeping everything in the right place and still visually appealing is a heavy image and card. Xiaomi Mi Band App This is a fitness tracking app's redesign. The app offers different background for every category or topic. For example, the background on the right side is darker as it highlights your sleep patterns. While this background is lighter than the one on the left, all of them still look subtle. It's an interesting choice of design but there's certainly nothing wrong with it because it fits well for the UI as a whole. The background reaching to the top of the screen and showing information such as time and battery life under the phone was also a smart idea; this makes the Interface much more unified. Trello It is rated among the smoothest, simplest, finest productivity app out there. In your to-do list, you can create a board for anything and drag /drop every task to monitor your progress. The iOS app's layout is super user-friendly, allowing users to handle their activities on the go and not relying wholly on the website or the desktop app version. This app has a number of really interesting board backgrounds that you can either choose, or let Trello choose for you spontaneously. It is surely the best app design in our book on productivity. Things 3 This to-do app exclusively made for iOS and macOS. The app features a stunning interface with great attention to detail and interactions that make it fun to manage activities. The 3rd version is created with an out-of-the-box approach, developing a very unique user interface that does not blindly follow the majority of the applications out there. Fantastical 2 One of the best calendar applications for Apple devices out there, created by Flexibits. This provides a much more elegant UI than the Calendar app owned by Apple. You can view your appointments as a calendar, take a look at the week or a whole month, or rotate the phone to display a schedule similar to your desktop. Trips by Lonely Planet Lonely Planet has just released an app that allows you to track the journeys shared by fellow travel lovers and to chronicle your own. The mobile app UI is centered around travelers wanting to share wonderful images with the world. In addition, the bold color palette that they incorporated into the app is a bonus. Waze by Waze With animated maps that let us choose the best route, Waze revolutionized how efficiently we get around. Moreover, the app was pulled together by their designers in an interactive and enjoyable UI design for the mobile app. Marline It is a weather forecast app which even allows you to see the changes of tides and the moon. The look and the feel of the app fits right. Its layout is clean, and you get to see what you want on every screen, offering all the necessary information that you need. Thanks to its brilliant design, Marline has been acknowledged many times and has become an aesthetically pleasing alternative to the traditional weather app, putting it in the process on our list. If you are thinking of making money from your website, you are not the only one. Many people keep on finding ways through which they can make more money online. Making money from your website is not much to ask for; it is legitimate. You just need to know the right ways for making money. So, if you want to monetize your website, there are some basic ways, i.e., e-commerce, advertising, affiliate marketing, and more. We’ll be discussing them in detail and looking at the various ways in which you can generate revenue from your webpage. Affiliate Marketing It is one of the quickest and most famous ways of making money from your website. Becoming an affiliate for a product or services is a phenomenal way to gain revenues. It also helps build trust with your audience. Apart from gaining commission on every purchase, your credibility also increases. It works the same way to an ecommerce store. The only difference is that the product is not yours; you promote it on behalf of a trader. These traders pay a percentage of the sale to the affiliate. But for doing that you need to have an established audience or traffic on your website. Pay Per Click Advertising Pay Per Click is a strategy in which advertisers get to pay the charge on their advertisements, each time their advertisements are clicked. They basically pay you when someone clicks an ad on your website. It is hugely popular on search engines and is a great way of making money through your website. PPC is frequently a common choice for numerous site proprietors as there’s no need to sell advertisement space specifically to sponsors. These advertisements are based on your traffic and site. CPM Advertising You do not need to worry if your website is new and dependent on low traffic- producing sources; you might need to consider CPM advertising method to get started. Like Pay Per Click Advertising, CPM ads will pay based on a number; it is viewed instead of clicks, creating your payout. In general, you may require 1,000 views of an advertisement to earn a good commission with no clicks needed to be made. Sell Advertising Space The most common way in which site proprietors make money from advertising is to offer advertising space directly to sponsors. Like most websites, if yours has space to fit in an advertisement that will be effectively seen by your clients – it’s a great thought to contact advertisers or use an organization/agency to get you paid for putting advertisements on your website. However, keep in mind that when utilizing this strategy, you should be a part of a commercially reasonable industry and ought to provide high-quality content which draws a lot of traffic. Advertisers won’t purchase your advertisement space if they think it’s not worth it. Generate Leads Businesses flourish on new leads coming in their way to ask around their services or products. It’s not surprising that they’re continuously looking for productive ways to discover new sources of leads to help them to grow. For example: Let’s say you have got the website educating math. Your reader’s data (like their email address or phone number) would be of great importance to different online schools who’re looking to offer their courses to energetic, proactive students. It is basically two parties who can benefit from one another. Although it is a lot like affiliate marketing, in leads, the reader will not necessarily buy their product. Final Words To earn money from your website, you need to gain traffic. Also, you need to be sure that the ad you put on your website is relevant to the content which is present on your website. The most important thing is that if you want the users to be interested in your ads, they first need to be interested in your content. In simpler words, interest in your content will create the interest in clicking the ad. So, keep your content interesting and engaging. Artificial intelligence has affected our everyday lives, and we realize it isn’t a scary concept as people once thought of it. Every year, we see AI introducing new ways to engage users, drives sales and make the processes convenient. In the past years, we witnessed the popularity and effectiveness of AI bots and how they made our lives and jobs easier. Companies in 2019 have been able to access and implement this life-changing technology. Look around yourself if you don't trust me and note all kinds of interesting AI uses. But what’s next now? What’s new in the world of AI in 2019 and ahead? What artificial intelligence trends will be looked upon beyond 2019? Let’s quickly find out more AI trends that are expected to make a mark in 2019 and beyond. Image Recognition Technology has come down to the level that computers not only understand your speech but they are also able to ‘see’ and ‘recognize’ with the help of ‘image recognition’. It is the ability of computers to acquire, process and analyze data from visual sources. Thanks to artificial intelligence, that has become possible. Image recognition has various uses including the ability to detect license plates, allow photo analysis for payment completion or other verification. It can help businesses improve their marketing to a great level. We see it as a rising trend in 2019 and ahead. Advanced AI Assistants We have been facilitated by voice assistants like Apple’s Siri, Amazon’s Alexa and other devices, for a long time now. Till now, these voice assistants have been performing basic tasks like searching and playing the requested song, and making a call, etc. But we expect to witness big changes in the things AI assistants will perform in 2019. AI assistants will be able to perform more individualized experiences as soon as they get better at identifying different users' voices. So rather than just speaking to our mobile or AI home device, we predict we will be able to speak to our cars, TV, even refrigerators. AI-Powered Conversational Search Since the advent of voice search, the way in which users search online has transformed for the past few years. Users now speak a query instead of typing. Voice search is an emerging trend and as soon as people start using AI-powered assistants more often and in new ways, conversational AI-powered search will hold the grip. By new ways, we mean customers will speak of their queries in a more conversational way. As a result, AI-powered search engine will not only provide the number of listings, but it will also facilitate us with more conversational answers. In simpler words, the way users will be provided with the search results will become more advanced. Conversational Chatbots and Virtual Agents We are all familiar with the usability of chatbots contributing to customer services. A mainstream example is easily ordering a burger or a pizza through Facebook chatbots. Gartner predicts ‘By 2020, 85% of customer interactions will be handled without a human.’ So, 2019 will be the year where we will see initiation of some major advancements in chatbots. We expect to see customers speak to chatbots just like they would to a live chat agent. Chatbots will be strengthened with more functionalities, as customers will be able to speak to chatbots just like they would to any chat agent. Therefore, companies along with simple chatbots will be focusing on implementing human-like virtual agents too. More business proprietors will be using conversational chatbots and virtual agents for customer services so that users do not have to pass to a real-life staffer. Smart Recommendations When you shop online, various websites give you recommendations, based on the history of purchases that you have made or browsed. We now expect to see these recommendations become even smarter. AI will be able to provide better recommendation than before based on the tone and sentiment of the customers which will be received as a result of advanced voice search along with their browsing history. Companies will then be providing guided and more personalized shopping experience. Cyber Defense It is a real menace for business owners to prevent cloud infrastructure, the internet of things devices and software-as-a-service (SaaS) platforms from cybercriminals. Nevertheless, artificial intelligence will make it easier for you and ward off cyber threats and hackers. AI cyber defense catches the subtle indicators of any unusual activity that takes place and protects your system early or before the threat becomes uncontrollable. Various companies have started using AI and machine learning to uncover cybercriminals and identify threats before they cause any damage. Last words… These are some of the most useful and exciting AI trends that are expected to score a mark in 2019 and beyond. We expect to see multiple others down the road. People have begun embracing AI rather than being skittish because of the efficiency and convenience it has brought to the world. It possesses the potential to transform the way things are done. We've seen AI revamping domains like digital marketing, CRM and others. We will witness more companies implementing this life-changing technology in the years to come. When learning about inbound marketing for the first time, it's easy to feel flooded by all the various tactics that experts often talk about. Keyword research is a prime example of doing something you probably already know you're going to do, but don't know how to go about it. Right? Keywords are words entered into search engines by users. These can be single word or multi-word sentences. Irrespective of their length one of the basic elements of SEO is to use keywords in your content and it is a simple way to track the success of your SEO effort. Unarguably, keyword research is the most significant component of SEO strategy. Here is a step-by-step guide at how to pick the best target keyword phrase for an article. Brainstorm Your Keywords Ask yourself what you'd be searching for if you wish to find an article on this topic before you go anywhere near a keyword research tool. Start with some brainstorming. Scribble down a few phrases of different lengths, but there is nothing short of two words. Think of eight to ten keywords that are related to the topic and note them down. The phrases you have written will work as a topic for a group of additional keywords. When you have multiple topics to deal with, you need to find specific phrases relevant to those keywords. Enter the keyword in Google and look at the suggested search queries are a simple way to do this. Write down the results and delete those that do not match. After you have completed the search, scroll down to the bottom of Google page, which will suggest you related searches, providing you with some extra keywords. Put Keywords in Headings You don’t have to fit your heading in your keyword phrase; rather, adjust your keyword in your headings. To rank high on any given keyword, it should be present in your headline. Simultaneously, readability shouldn’t be disturbed. Try to write a few model headlines for your preferred target phrase keeping this in mind. Think of two or more samples till you come up with the one you really like. So, have a target to create a headline that will use your keyword, but will be tailored for the reader first and foremost. If you find it difficult to look for something that doesn't sound awkward, then you really may have to rethink your strategy. Bear in mind that stop words can be included in awkward keyword phrases to help them flow more naturally. This approach is much better than simply incorporating grammatically incorrect keyword phrases into text and can help make the material easily readable to your audience. Focus on Long-tail Keywords This is your most major step in picking the best keywords. It is also important to take into account long- tail keywords when choosing keywords to target. Besides being much more targeted than short-tail keywords, long-tail keywords are a useful way to detect highly qualified leads that are willing to buy your product, good, or service. Although long tail keywords tend to have lower search frequencies, they usually attract more specific traffic, and are generally far less able to compete, and rank higher. Use of Keyword Research Tools How much importance does the website earn from a keyword? These tools will help you understand this question and they would make great contributions to your array of keyword research: Ahrefs- A full set of keyword research tools, content and SEO. Google AdWords Keyword Planner- Allows you to compare monthly domestic and global keyword search volumes, competitive scales and estimated cost per click. Login and go to Tools » Keyword Planner to get keyword suggestions, then pick one of the options under ‘Find New Keywords and Search Volume’ SEMrush- Offers keyword data and allows you to find keywords for your keyword search terms. This paid tool also has several other features, but on this page, you can try a free search for keywords. Don’t Forget to Analyze the Competitors Draw up a list of your major competitors and then go to their websites to see their target keywords. To help identify the keywords they are targeting, read their content and view their meta-tags. Checking the keywords of your competitor will not only let you see what you might miss, but will also help you expand your list of ideas. What’s more? There are at least three additional reasons why the target keyword phrase is so important beyond just being placed on page-one ranking. It represents a major portion of your heading and meta title There are several advantages of using meta description tag in SEO. Typically, a prospective user will see the first section of your post. It's when you're most likely to attract or miss a possible reader in those fractions of a second. The work you put into picking the keyword phrase can go better for the rest of the article Anything you don't use for the main phrase can turn into secondary keyword phrases that subvert the deck, intro, subheads, etc. of the article, further improving the prominence of the article in the indexes of search engines. Searching for keyword phrases helps make you a smart writer and editor To put it simply, the research gives you insight into how you think about and seek information from your potential audience. There are multiple web hosting services available for hosting your website. But before exploring any one of them, it is important to know what service your website needs, your budget, business needs and, of course, the type of services your web hosting server offers. The particulars of every web hosting solution vary with different types. For instance, some operating systems have multiple hardware setups. Moreover, various web hosting solutions will provide the range of plans from which each is finely tuned to meet the needs of the specific kind of client. Nailing all types of web hosting solutions could be a really tough job if you don't have a guide. Here, we will look at the top three types of web hosting services available. We will also tell you about the positives and negatives of hosting servers and which hosting solutions best fit your needs. But first let us explain what web hosting is... When we visit a website in a browser, it is because browser downloads multiple files with converted markup and code into something which a visitor can understand and see. So, technically hosting services allow individuals or businesses to post a web page or website onto the internet. Any web host or service provider dispenses the services and technologies required for the website to be displayed on the internet. These websites are stored, or hosted, on special servers. When a user wants to view a web page, they simply type the domain into their browser. What happens at the back is that the computer automatically gets connected to your hosted server, and your web pages will be delivered to them through the browser. In this article we will further discuss the types of web hosting along with the pointers so that it becomes easy for you to choose what’s best for you. Shared Hosting Server The name shared hosting itself explains everything. A shared hosting server is the one where your site is placed on the same server along with numerous other websites. Being surrounded by hundreds or even thousands of websites is not a new thing and is a very common phenomenon for a website. Shared hosting server is the most cost-effective pick where you get your own domain. It is best suited for small websites that do not have much traffic. Positive: It is the most cost-effective pick among all the servers. Moreover, their setup is completely taken care of. Shared hosting server’s configuration remains minimal so you can concentrate completely on building your website. Shared hosting providers handle all the technical aspects of the infrastructure of a website, manage security of infrastructure, updates and other maintenance. Negative: Sharing a server can bring benefits as well as some pitfalls. A server is a computer which is dependent on resources like CPU speed, hard drive space and RAM and do not assure infinity. If you run too many programs simultaneously, it begins to slow down. The same happens with these machines if they are loaded with so much at the same time. Since all the websites that are there on the server rely heavily on server’s resources, it can make you run into problem, if any of them is dominating the whole processing power via increased traffic or faulty code. Also, it has limited security features due to shared server. Dedicated Hosting Server Dedicated server means you have a server all for yourself. And just like any other hosting server provides the user with a host of benefits along with quite a few downsides. With the dedicated hosting server, very few providers are more than happy to let you customize the server to a certain degree. Since you have a server all by yourself, you can choose how much and what type of RAM to equip the server with. You can also decide on which operating system the server will run on. Being very specific, you can make any changes you want/need, which brings a lot of convenience if you plan on running any special software on the server. Positive: The best thing about this server is that it negates all bad neighbor issues simply because there are no such things as neighbors. No other website can pose a security risk, steal your resources or cause other issues. This makes it different from other web hosting servers. It is more secure and difficult to hack, making this ideal for companies with lots of customer. It provides faster speed, better connectivity and upload time. Negative: Firstly, renting a dedicated server is quite expensive. Moreover, if you own a server, you actually need to know a lot about computers and server technology. In addition, with the dedicated server hosting, any faulty coding or problematic websites are your own fault as you are completely alone and dominant on the server. In dedicated hosting server, diagnostics and problem resolution are more problematic. And you need an expert individual to manage environment. VPS Hosting Server VPS is the most balanced web hosting server among all the different types of servers. VPS stands for Virtual Private Server. This server is also a shared environment but the way it has been set up is quite different from shared server. Although all sites on VPS share a single physical server, they all have separate virtual machines. This characteristic makes it a middle ground between shared hosting server and dedicated server. It is the go-to option for website owners who are looking for an upgrade from shared hosting mainly because of its balanced nature from all points of view, including cost. Positive: VPS is considered the most reliable and stable shared hosting server. Due to the limitation of 10-20 websites per server decreases the rush hence resulting in less demand on the server in itself. Another major benefit of VPS server is that it is scalable, renders more flexibility and gives you access to customize your environment. VPS Hosting helps improve privacy and security. That is because you don't share the Operating System with any other websites. Thus, nobody can access the files. Negative: There’s not too much to talk about downsides of VPS hosting. The biggest downside is that it is more expensive than your lower-tier solutions. Secondly, with more configuration power also comes great responsibility. You should actually know what you are doing. And if you really want to take benefit from it, you need to get properly educated about it. Also, it requires better upkeep and maintenance. Of all the e-commerce marketing and conversion strategies, building social proof has been undoubtedly among the most successful one. It is one of the most effective levers for building trust in an ecommerce company, and it has the ability to become even more efficient as you evolve. Persuasive content is the secret to selling more in e-commerce, but to get that, you need to know how people think. One of the most important factors in influencing our choices is social proof It is an important part of the choices made by consumers. This is why ‘Social Proof’ is such an effective e-commerce marketing tool. Socially strengthened trust metrics would help you as an e-commerce site: Boost conversions. Bring trust in your brand. Help improve customer’s confidence in dealing with your brand. Here, we are going to discuss some most effective ways to use social proof. Product Reviews & Ratings Star ratings, like/dislikes, text description, comments — each determinant is an indication that already in the mind of the customer attempts to answer a fundamental question: What do other people think of the purchase a person is thinking to make? Customer ratings are seen on ecommerce platforms as one of the most powerful types of social evidence to be used. About 95% of shoppers read online reviews before making a purchase, and the probability of buying a product with five ratings is 270% higher than the probability of buying a product without them. Which sums up that if your website does not include feedback from customers anywhere on the product page, you may lose a significant amount of business. So, put product reviews and ratings in order to make customers sure of their purchase. Product Recommendations One of the drawbacks with most review systems is that if you don't have a high volume of feedback or reviews, the customers may think you don't have a lot of customers, your customers don't like specific product lines, and/or your products aren't nice. Recommendations are a good combo or substitution for reviews as they give potential consumers a clear look into whether the products are valued by existing customers. Such recommendations can be aggregated to provide you with a number of recommended customers, equivalent to a product level NPS (net promoter score). Show Interest in Existing Products Social proof is all about indicating a buyer’s interest. When showing a brand in high demand, you hit all the factors that encourage people to buy on the basis of the fact that others are doing the same thing. Below are four ways you can indicate buyer interest on your product pages: Limited Stock Alert – Show it explicitly next to the main CTA when stock is limited. Display out-of-stock items– Through showing that certain product variants – such as shoe sizes – are not available you show automatically strong buyer interest. Show ‘recent purchase made’ - Show a pop-up telling customers when a product is purchased. Display number of purchases within the last 24 hours – If this is feasible, let customers know how many sales you have made over the past 24 hours. Showcase seasonal shortage – Let people know if a product is going to be popular on a buying holiday like at Christmas or Mother's Day! If buyers are tied to specific events, they are more inclined to believe slogans such as "While Stocks Last." FAQs Segment Organize your customer service ticketing process questions to define and answer the product's top-asked questions. Social proof is not only about showing your product's raving reviews – it's also about exhibiting that your product or brand advocates are responsive to the needs of your customers for any questions that arise. Celebrity/Influencer’s Say About Your Product We cannot neglect the importance of influencers and celebrities while talking about social proof. If you haven’t already reached celebrities or influencers in your marketing strategies, you should find ways to incorporate them into your website. On your front door, you can show that the product is approved by the influencers/celebrities. Explore ways to work on content for influencers that support both parties. They offer workable tips to promote your e-store. 89% of marketers claim the influencer marketing ROI is equal or higher than other forms of marketing Certainly, endorsing celebrities and influencers can be a very powerful form of social proof but it depends on the types of products you sell and the influencers you pick. You must acknowledge that it doesn’t matter how popular or famous the influencer is as long as you find someone who is popular among people who use your product or services. Customer Testimonials Requesting your previous customers' testimonials can be a good way to build trust and confidence in your audience. They vary in the way they are presented from the product reviews. Testimonials are succinct recommendations put in the call-out format. Testimonials are the face of reviews and are the foundation of social proof. It is an especially powerful technique to mix video testimonials with your written testimonials. UGC (User Generated Content) UGC is one of the growing drivers of ecommerce sites social proof. Reviews, testimonials and images of your customers using your products on-site and offsite are marketing gold for business expansion. User-generated content (UGC) is a term used to describe any content created about you by your customers. This content can take various forms including social media posts, in-depth video reviews, blog reviews, or maybe even a brand/product podcast. Take Away… Social proof is a psychological and social theory that explains that people seek advice and recommendations from other individuals before they decide to buy. Since potential customers know that others have bought a product before, they may gain confidence while buying from a new store or unfamiliar products. Whether you're selling to a B2B or B2C audience social proof is one of the most effective ways of improving conversion rates as well as boosting sales. Website design for e-commerce is a kind of sales pitch. Muddle your words and lose interest in your audience. Get the pitch right and become valued customers for your audience. When selling the products, social proof is one of the most reliable and effective strategies to use. The smartphone age is here, mobile phone users have surpassed desktop users. Today Google Play Store and Apple App Store have more than 5 million apps available. With each passing day, this number will only increase exponentially. As a practice, mobile apps need to be highly scalable with much more flexibility, which can be accomplished by combining the cloud platform with the mobile platform. Therefore, mobile apps are a requirement for today’s business. Cloud mobile apps nowadays are named as one of the primary business needs, particularly if we think about it in the years ahead. With every passing day, more and more companies are opting for cloud-based solutions or simply go for cloud-based applications. Although the integration rate of mobile cloud solutions is growing gradually and steadily there is still a large number of online and offline businesses that still have to experience the potential of cloud computing. What is a cloud mobile app? Cloud apps are like a mobile-specific UI web application and a cloud-hosted database. Like web applications, cloud apps can be accessed via mobile browsers, which means that updates are pushed in real time and the latest app is always available to users. There isn't just one reason to make this technology switch, but there are also many reasons to choose applications based on the cloud. Here's what makes cloud-based apps so demanding. Time Efficient It takes time to develop an app and not all applications are created equally. It therefore depends on how long it takes to build an application. It is important to arrive at practical timelines of development based on the type of app you are developing. Native app development is a long and complicated process. If you build it with complicated features, it may take 6 to 12 months to complete the application anywhere. There are several applications that require more than a year to be completed. As time is a crucial factor in the development of apps. In practice, the development of the native app is a tiresome and a lengthy process. However, it would take lesser time to create cloud mobile apps compared to native apps. This means that in a shorter time, you can get your new cloud app ready for launch. Not Platform Specific Cloud apps work on both of these operating systems as compared to native apps that need to be developed specifically for iOS or Android devices. This makes your job much simpler because it exposes a wider audience to your app. You don't have to decide what to build first whether Apple or Android. Many companies end up launching in front of each other on one platform and it's quite likely that the excitement has died by the time you launch on the second platform. Cloud applications exist on the web and can be accessed from any platform unlike their native counterparts. So, you can launch concurrently on both platforms and reach the entire audience together. Data Security Cloud mobile apps have data stored and accessed safely using the cloud, unlike native apps that allow data to be saved on user devices Through reliable data security and accessibility cloud technology not only protects the privacy of your customers but also guarantees fast and seamless access to information. Cloud-based applications are incredibly safe and secure, despite common misconceptions. A number of people believe that it must be very unsafe because their information is stored in the cloud and can be easy to access on any device from anywhere. Be certain, however, that using the highest protocols, data stored in the cloud is secured. Typically, a cloud host manages network security as opposed to in-house IT departments that need to multitask and split their attention across a multitude of activities And, if we like to think so, unfortunately, internal leakage cannot be left out as a chief concern for data theft. Keeping data off-site also prevents theft of internal data and makes the application secure. Saves Money Cost-effectiveness is another important factor that primarily drives entrepreneurs to move forward with the idea of mobile cloud applications. When selecting cloud computing applications, you make absolutely sure that you don't choose the most expensive one in the stack like the development of native applications. The cost of developing a mobile application is dependent on the functionality embedded in it. Cloud mobile app' development costs are lower than conventional native apps. In fact, as mentioned above, the cloud mobile app can be built once and integrated into both networks, i.e. Android & iOS. Cloud mobile apps are top draw for mobile app developers due to the lower development cost. Therefore, if you're from a start-up company and have an MVP approach, cloud mobile app development is one of the best choices, as cost efficiency is one of MVP's key benefits for cloud mobile apps. Scalability Mobile apps have to be regularly updated, as with any information-based process, and all necessary advancements need to be made on a routine basis. Regular maintenance and updating is important, but it comes with a cost. As with any information-based process, mobile apps need to be constantly updated and all possible improvements must be provided on a regular basis. Regular maintenance and updating are essential but they come with a cost. Cloud mobile apps offer great scalability with little or no disruption unlike native apps adding new functionality, fixing glitches, and providing updates prove expensive and time-consuming. The developer updates and keeps making changes to the application with absolute ease with cloud applications. It is done by pushing users’ updates as users are not actually downloading and installing the app on their devices. Data Recovery The data is primarily stored on a local server for a native application. So, if the server goes down and cannot be retrieved, all the data will be lost forever. Any loss of data is not good either for the business or its users. Unless you have some data backed up already you can see the whole database permanently losing. Data is stored on not one, but several servers when the mobile application is hosted on cloud technology. It means that if any data loss happens, you will easily recover data. Therefore, several others function while one server is down. Your data will always be secure, and you will always be able to recover it. Why Cloud Mobile Apps Are the Choice of the Modern Users and Developers? Cloud mobile applications provide convenience in the process of developing mobile apps. The opportunity to customize mobile cloud applications for any device or operating system allows most businesses to create cloud apps to meet their users' needs. Mobile devices have become ubiquitous; the cloud has become the major resource and the choice of modern-day IT landscape. Massive numbers of business organizations shift their databases to the cloud and are naturally inclined to develop, deploy and manage their mobile applications using the infrastructure and resources available in cloud technology in line with the current trend of cloud computing. Christmas and New Year are around the corner and shoppers are ready to splurge for the liveliest season of the year. Last year, there was a 14% surge in online retail sales during the holiday season. That’s a massive opportunity to benefit from this year’s holiday shopping season as the shoppers’ spending behavior remains robust and growing. To solve your holiday marketing conundrum, follow these marketing tips: 1- Redesign your online individuality to embrace the holiday spirit A brand remodeling during the holiday season is always a good idea to stand out from the crowd. 2- Enhance your customers’ mobile shopping experience The rise of mobile users has made marketing via mobile an excellent idea that can bring in a lot of sales during the holiday season. 3- Recognize your holiday’s hottest items and ensure their availability To guarantee consistent sales, you should be able to identify the season’s hottest items and ensure they are available in good quantity. 4- Create a shopper’s holiday gift guides The holiday season is all about sharing happy moments with your loved ones and colleagues, so work on developing a gift guide for all important people in your life. 5- Prepare an aggressive social media marketing drive Buyers these days use social media aggressively to purchase their favorite items on the eve of the season, so plan an aggressive social media marketing campaign to boost sales. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uV3Me1TKjWQ&feature=youtu.be It barely needs highlighting that our reliance on technology is growing with each passing day. There was a time when mobile phones were used only for talking and exchanging messages, but the arrival of smartphones took the communication technology to a whole new level. In just a few years, smartphones became an indispensable part of our lives; today, they are being used for various purposes including entertainment, documenting, payments, contact tracing and more. Amid a global slowdown due to Covid-19 pandemic, the world, both developed and developing, saw a phenomenal rise in the sale of smartphones. Cheaper data rates, a strong push towards digitization, huge competition across segments and a surge in the demand made smartphones a particularly exciting segment that took steps in the right direction. To keep the impetus going, we’d like to look deeper into the space and find ways on how to improve the journey for a consumer — from better products to more effective communications. Here are the top 5 smartphone trends that are likely to dominate in 2021. 5G – Future is Now With a number of gadgets launching with 5G capabilities already integrated into them, 5G technology is no longer a thing of the future. This is in step with consumer expectations also, who consider 5G as a key smartphone buying factor, as emphasized by a recent Cybermedia study. This is due to the opportunities that the technology brings with it – better quality video creation and consumption, quicker downloads, unforgettable AR/VR and gaming experience, and the capacity to stream UHD videos. Compact Phones Gone are the days when a phone with a 5.5-inch display was considered a phablet and anything over six inches was a tablet. Today, even the smallest of Androids are in the same approximation. While there are noticeable benefits of a bigger phone, a small market for small phones still exists. But we do comprehend why it is so hard to pull that off, as a smaller phone means a smaller battery, poorer thermal management, smaller camera sensors and bad loudspeaker performance. The iPhone 12 Mini is the only phone that is slightly unbeatable to these inadequacies, but it too is not quite satisfactory. Compact phones are possibly the least likely to materialize from this list. Thin and lightweight phones are what we might have to make do with. Curved Displays Curved displays continue to be a heated topic in the world of smartphones, as fans strive to come to an agreement, as do brands. On one hand, they provide a far more premium touch, along with an improved viewing experience and a higher screen-to-body proportion, offering a bigger display in a smaller body. On the other, they are more vulnerable to damage, take up more internal space and can be held back by poor palm rebuff. Although brands are addressing some of these cons, the progress appears rather stationary. It’s generally felt that the issue here is that the more popular phones with curved displays, such as the flagships from Samsung, offer the worse experience in terms of functionality and inadvertent touches. Remarkably, other smaller brands such as Huawei, Oppo and Vivo do not encounter the same issues, making one believe in the future of flexible displays. Foldables These smartphones are a very stirring category that is still very promising. So far, it has been a pokey race in the form of whatever Samsung has offered. The alternatives have been nowhere as competitive nor extensively available. If foldables are certainly the future, we think that brands are wasting valuable time in achieving their expertise while the market is fledgling. Indeed, the first couple of generations are improbable to be great, but you have to begin somewhere. It might not be that apparent at the moment, but Samsung’s lead today will be helpful in its future. Fast Charging Standards Last year, fast charging on smartphones reached new heights; even many economical phones offer unbelievable charging speeds of under one hour for a full tank. In some ways, it offsets the limited battery size that small phones suffer from. Nevertheless, there’s one key obstacle which doesn’t appear to be going anywhere anytime soon: interoperability. Every company has apparently chosen a different approach with its fast-charging application. Some have gone with higher voltage; some augmented the current while others used numerous inflow points. This disintegration has led to an odd problem where USB Type-C is ubiquitously but your preferred charging standard isn’t. Now, these are some general trends in Data Science and Analytics that will be observed in 2021 and the coming years. However, there are many ways in which Data Science is changing the shape of different industries like marketing, finance, etc. Given enough time, Data Science might be a part of all the industries in the world, not just tech! So let's understand the role of this technology in different industries. Marketing and Retail Data Science already plays a huge role in marketing and retail. The most basic thing that almost every company uses is marketing and retail dashboards that visualize the data to see the hidden patterns and trends. Data Science and Machine Learning are also very useful for customer analysis wherein customer data is collected to understand the demographic of customers, the products that are popular with different types of customers, their likes and dislikes, and how to market a particular product to a section of customers. Web and Social Media Analytics The internet and social media are a treasure trove of data! Google alone processes around 20 petabytes of data every day (That's approximately 1 followed by 15 zeros) Companies can use the web and social media analytics to obtain data about their customers and feedback on their performance which can be used to improve their bottom line. Sentiment analysis is a great example of this where companies can obtain their customer reviews from the internet or social media and to understanding the sentiment of the customers towards the company. Supply Chain and Logistics Supply Chain and Logistics may sound boring but it is a critical aspect for companies. Can you imagine Amazon working if their system for transporting products from point A to point B crashed? No! Therefore, Data Science and Analytics is an extremely important part of the Supply Chain and Logistics that companies can use for Inventory Management, Procurement Analysis, Inventory Classification, etc. For example, data analytics algorithms can be used to understand the correlation between demand and supply for companies and create methods to increase sales by always ensuring in-demand items are available. Finance and Risk Analytics FinTech is a technology trend that is becoming more and more popular with time. It involved finance companies using cutting edge technology like Data Science and Artificial Intelligence to improve in areas like risk analytics, fraud detection, algorithmic trading, etc. Many big banks and finance companies use Data Science to analyze their large store of data to optimize their risk scoring models and decrease their risks. This data can include financial transactions, lending schemes, interest rates, customer interactions, customer trustworthiness, etc. ALSO READ: How Machine Learning Helps User-Experience (Infographic) How to Leverage these Data Science and Analytics Trends in 2021? As you have seen, there are various new Data Science and Analytics trends emerging in 2021. You can leverage them to learn more about Data Science and improve your career using the data science courses offered by Great Learning in collaboration with The University of Texas. These programs will teach you right from the basics of Data Science such as Python, Business Statistical, and Data Visualization to various techniques of Machine Learning such as Supervised and Unsupervised algorithms. You will also get direct domain exposure by doing projects relating to Data Science in different industries like Marketing and Retail, Web and Social Media Analytics, Supply Chain and Logistics, and Finance and Risk Analytics. Some of these projects include Facebook Comments Prediction, Retail Sales Prediction, Insurance Data Visualization, etc. Of late, Agile has proved to be more than just a catchword in the IT industry. At the start of another year of thrilling events, the arena of Agile Development continues to grow as organizations continue to discover more exciting ways of planning and implementing work. Technology and virtual communications approaches have grown phenomenally and are here to stay, while our capacity to maintain human connection continues to prove difficult even in the best of circumstances. Agile believes in communication and putting the whole team in once place to get the task done in order to avoid information silos. Agile ensures teams’ autonomy even in a Pandemic The Covid-19 pandemic saw a major shift in the work ethic across all industries, including software. The concept of working from home, which was earlier not encouraged, was adopted, but it also suffered from serious communication issues. At its heart, Agile suggests that the teams must be self-sufficient and be able to communicate to avoid information and communication gaps. Therefore, based on the pandemic and the need to increase output while maintaining the needed distance, the concept of Cross Functional Teams was introduced. The cross functional teams include people from different functional domains of a project or a product life and put them together to conduct all phases of program from start to finish. In this structure each member of the team uses their expertise of respective domains to achieve a common goal. The year 2020 gave us a chance to evaluate how many of these predictions of Agile trends were accurate. Here is our list of top 4 trends for PMOs in 2021: Rise of Agile Governance Rise of Artificial Intelligence (AI) Digital Transformation Skills Remote Working & Resilience Inevitably, that stress has been laid on digital transformation and alternate ways of working across traditional, remote, and hybrid models, just like much of 2020 was the year of digitization for PMOs. In an environment that is volatile and constantly changing, PMOs continue to encounter many challenges, one of which is adjusting to changes as it strives to support agile changes in their own exclusive ways. So, let us explore a little deeper into each of these trends and learn what they might offer in 2021. How Machine Learning Helps User-Experience (Infographic) #1 – Rise of Agile Governance Agile has swiftly sneaked out from the world of software development into virtually all product and service industries. And PMOs are trying to find ways in which they can retain monitoring and control of how projects are managed. Agile (uppercase A) works as a delivery framework while agile (lowercase a) refers to the executive culture framework and mindset. Regardless of whether (A)agile is a criterion for PMOs, upright behavior in process and attitude will enable positive continual change. Many Agile transitioning organizations would contend that this is already the case for PMOs, whereby perceptibility, transparency, authority, and supervision are often left behind. To ensure good governance, several features of the business must be taken into account, such as adaptability and embracing frequent change. “Agile makes you quick but to be agile you have to be fit. It’s just two letters away from “fragile”, so it’s best to get fit before you get nimble,” said Ms Mamoona, Agile & PMO expert at a global IT company. #2 – Rise of Artificial Intelligence Artificial intelligence has seen an enormous in the last few years; in fact, calling this technology our time’s industrial revolution won’t be off the mark. AI has revolutionized the way we think, design, work and produce. AI is already widespread and getting a tougher position by the day as we see the speedy rise and influence it has on many industries worldwide. Just look at your phone – it identifies your face to unlock your screen, search. More astonishingly, it is able to detect algorithms that help you to navigate online, with as simple as autocorrect allowing you to type emails quicker than ever. When it comes to project management, the surge of AI reporting can simplify the delivery of performance indicators to empower decision-making processes. We have also observed that AI provides more targeted insights on how project managers are feeling through feedback provided in their status reports as an example. Artificial intelligence has turned to be a valuable tool to not only support PM but also in so many other exciting ways. For instance, using AI has already played such a vital part in the Financial Risk Management space for the Financial Services industry, which is mostly focused around payment services. Nevertheless, talking about the advantages of AI and its valuable place within the PMO is at a promising stage and yet to be wholly realized. There are risks to executing or building systems that are keener than we are. Will AI replace the human component in PMO and project delivery? Although we do not believe it will, we do think that AI can help accelerate the automation within PMOs and allow for focus to be placed in fields of more significance. #3 – Digital Transformation Skills Digital transformation is an old field. The standard hypothesis is that people tend to assume digital transformation is an IT transformation enterprise only. Whether that is a structural change from non-digital-driven to digital-driven or maybe the spur to change your digital experience with better and more resourceful solutions. One of the most significant things to comprehend is that it is fundamentally business transformation, reinforced by investments in new technology—not a new technology on the lookout for opportunities. In this day and age, consumer needs are continually developing, and businesses are keeping up with variable degrees of success. Delivery systems are adapting and being modified to match accelerated development across many industries. Shareholders and board members uphold more traditional needs within these unsettling settings. ROI and practical decision-making around calculated synergy, risk exposure, and asset utilization still need to be established. The key focus should be how you support organizations on their digital transformation trip and leveraging technology to improve current business methods, elevate culture, and the general user experience — all with the objective to meet changing market and business requirements. #4 – Remote Working & Resilience The Covid-19 pandemic has seen a large segment of the global workforce work from home. It hardly needs pointing out that the new work ethic has had a dramatic impact on team collaboration and output. There are no rules for how to do this effectively, and in true Agile fashion we are learning as we proceed. Remote working has rapidly begun to reshape the future of the workforce, combining changes and employee management that need transparent communication and engagement enterprises. Conclusion Being resilient to change is important to keep relevant and become resolute to thrive. 2020 has been the year of reconsidering internal processes to keep up with the quick pace expected for 2021. It is highly crucial that PMOs focus on how to drive value for their organizations and learn to adjust to procedures that will inspire internal progress from within the PMO itself. In today’s technology-driven world, modern businesses rely on data than on anything else. From entering their time for payroll, seeking guidance on current processes, and evaluating data to make decisions, users interact with data virtually on a daily basis. Microsoft Power Platform Fundamentals No wonder, users can be empowered to gain insights from and interact with data while automating those tedious tasks that appear to be onerous. Power Platform allows your company to create solutions while enabling you to unite tailored technology to help everyone, from top executives to the ordinary employees, drive the business with data. Power Platform consists of four key products: Power Apps, Power Automate, Power BI and Power Virtual Agents. Power Apps provides a rapid low code development environment for building custom apps for business needs. It has services, connectors, and a scalable data service and app platform (Common Data Service) to allow simple integration and interaction with existing data. Power Apps enables the creation of web and mobile applications that run on all devices. An Outline of Common Data Service (CDS) Like a database, Common Data Service, or CDS, is a data storage service, which can be used to store data in the form of tables known as Entities. CDS is a service that is used largely in the Power Apps portal, but it is also accessible through other Power Platform services and Microsoft Dynamics. It would be easy to think of the CDS as just a relational database, but it truly is comprised of three components: entities, logic, and security. Entities Whenever a new environment is created, a new example of CDS is made along with a pre-defined set of entities. This standard data plan is called the Common Data Model (CDM) and the entities created inside the initial instance of CDS are called the core entities. The Common Data Model can be understood to be the base language of the platform and lets applications communicate seamlessly and easily. Logic Not only is the CDS an interactive database with a pre-defined data set, but it also accompanies some integral logic that users are familiar with, allowing data to be authenticated in real time in line with certain requirements. They also can help an end user understand by showing messages advising them on what should be done before saving a record. Logic almost always means another crucial element of the Power Platform: Power Automate. This allows us to automate several different types of processes across the entire Power Platform and beyond. Security Users will be acquainted with the notion of security roles and business units. The CDS follows this security model, which implies that security is easily configured out of the box, letting us us lock down fields and record sharing, just as it occurs in Dynamics. Power Apps: An Overview No-Code Development Platforms Software A no-code platform is a development platform that exploits a visual development setting to lay layperson users craft apps, through systems such as drag-and-drop, adding application elements to create a whole application. Developers as well as non-technical people can use these tools to practice quick application development with modified workflows and functionality. A number of these products are geared toward large businesses that need to swiftly design business processes and workflow applications at a massive scale. The tools provide templates for workflow, element libraries, and interface customization to produce full-fledged applications sans any coding. Types of Power Apps 1. Canvas Apps Canvas-based apps have existed since Power Apps first emerged nearly 2 years ago. Canvas apps can immensely help you connect to a majority of the data sources that are included in your O365 license. What’s more, these apps are amazing for putting scores of data sources together into one app; for crafting a completely custom UI; for delivering a user-friendly, and mobile-first application for your users. 2. Model-driven Apps In Power Apps, model-driven apps are grounded on fundamental data, i.e., the data stored in Common Data Service (CDS). With model-driven apps, you need not worry about selecting the app size. And the best part is that it is responsive, which implies that it works on mobile or tablet quite easily. These apps are built on a data-first approach; therefore, they are far stiffer in design than canvas apps, with a majority of other user interface mechanisms being premade and pre-selected; however, there is still room to edit discrete components. 3. Portals Portals help build externally facing website through smart no-code solutions. Power Apps interface enables you to create an unidentified or genuine website that lets users interact with data held in CDS. Portals let companies create websites which can be shared with external users external either incognito or through the login provider of their choice, including LinkedIn. Enterprise login providers can also be integrated using various industry standard protocols like SAML2, OpenId Connect and WS-Fed. 4. Power Apps Features and Benefits Some of the features of Power Apps include: App creation, running and sharing Drag and drop functionality Integration with other Microsoft products Common Data Service (CDS) Custom APIs Collaboration support Connected to the cloud Benefits of Power Apps Power Apps is the go-to thing for its user-friendly functionalities and its capacity to integrate data. Here are some key benefits that Power Apps offers your business. 1. Speed In a fast-paced tech environment where each minute counts, getting the apps at the right time is very important. One of the major advantages of Power Apps is how swiftly you can develop a valuable, working app. Power Apps takes out numerous time-consuming elements from the normal development process and swaps them with an innate drag-and-drop interface. This results in Power Apps developing a new app faster than ever. 2. Easier App Creation Coding can be a challenging undertaking for a non-programmer with such elements as APIs, libraries, functions, and objects. Power Apps makes this task easier by dealing with a majority of coding by dragging and dropping. Power Apps handles all of the normal overhead that goes into creating a mobile app that either runs in a browser or a local desktop app. Power Apps obviates the need to learn about the pros and cons of frameworks or libraries. 3. Integration with Microsoft Tools One of the key benefits of the Power Apps is that being a Microsoft solution, it is fully capable of integrating with other Microsoft tools. This suggests that developers can leverage data from Microsoft apps such as Dynamics 365, SharePoint, Excel as well as other third-party services. There is a slew of connectors available for Power Apps, which means that there is scope to connect impeccably with other platforms. 4. Low cost Although Power Apps is available within many Microsoft 365 subscriptions, it’s also highly affordable as a standalone app. From a price range between $10 per app per month and $40 per user per month, it delivers a cheaper solution to outsourcing app development. Case study: Heathrow Airport Here’s a real-world case of how a large infrastructure, Heathrow Airport, or London Airport, has used the Power Apps to drastically enhance their business operations. Being a key international airport situated in London, United Kingdom, Heathrow is one of the world's busiest airports. Given the traffic congestion and other complexities involving flight operations at the airport, there was an urgent need to streamline systems there. And the first step towards that objective was to digitize the airport’s processes. To this end, Heathrow Airport adopted Microsoft Office 365 for all its employees, which was later built upon with the introduction of Power Apps. With the help of Power Apps, Heathrow Airport created an official process for creating and executing apps for employees to use. These apps could help employees build their own apps as well as utilize features from other internal apps to avoid a duplication of effort. Outcome The implementation of Power Apps paid dividends to the airport in terms of: Massive drop in use of paperwork; a whopping 75,000 pages of legacy paper were easily eliminated Reduced time of data entry; as many as 1,000 hours were saved Huge cut in costs incurred in work effort Business intelligence plays a leading role in the strategic planning of organizations and is used for numerous reasons, including gauging performance improvement toward business objectives, carrying out quantitative examination, reporting and data allocation, and recognizing customer insights. To this end, organizations gather data from internal IT systems and outside sources, prepare it for evaluation, run queries against the data and generate data visualizations, BI dashboards and reports to make the analytics results on hand to business users for effective decision-making and strategic planning. How Business Intelligence Works BI is used as a basis for strategic decision-making removing as much of the conjecture and speculative guesses from the decision-making process as possible. Organizations collect the essential data, examine it, and ascertain which actions to take to meet their objectives. On the technical front, raw data is gathered from the business’s activity; data is processed and then stored in data storerooms; and once it’s stored, the scrutiny process to answer business questions begins. BI applications help organizations to bring all these diverse sources into a single integrated view providing real-time reporting, dashboards, and analysis. Benefits of Business Intelligence BI is more than just software; it’s a rounded enterprise to use data in everyday operations. Here are some of the fundamental benefits of business intelligence. Quicker analysis, intuitive dashboards Business intelligence platforms are developed to do strong data processing in the cloud or on your company’s servers. These tools draw data from several sources into a data storeroom, and then examines the data consistent with user queries, drag-and-drop reports, and dashboards. BI helped Lenovo raise reporting proficiency by 95% across many departments. Improved organizational competence BI offers leaders the capacity to access data and attain a rounded view of their processes, and the ability to benchmark results against the bigger organization. With an all-inclusive view of the organization, leaders can detect areas of opportunity. Pharmaceutical company Pfizer uses BI platforms to join forces among subdivisions and developed models to enhance patient diagnosis and quicker, better ways to execute clinical trials. Data-driven business decisions Having precise data and quicker reporting ability make for better business decisions. MillerCoors modified mobile dashboards for their sales team so they can view real-time data and sales predictions before going into meetings with potential customers. They can speak of customers’ or prospects’ needs assuredly and know the data is current. Leaders no longer have to wait days or weeks for reports and cope with the risk of data that may be obsolete. Improved customer experience Customer experience and satisfaction can be directly affected by business intelligence. Verizon installed BI systems across many departments, producing upwards of 1,500 dashboards for workers. These dashboards drew data from processes and text data from customer support chat sessions. Using this data, the American telecommunications giant managed to recognize opportunities to improve customer service and decrease support calls by 44%. Increased competitive advantage Companies can be more viable when they know the market and their performance within the market. Rosenblatt Securities, an institutional brokerage firm, evaluated data from scores of sources and managed to see the best possible time to enter and exit the market and position themselves purposefully. With BI, businesses can keep up with changes in the industry, monitor periodic changes in the market, and forestall customer needs. Improved employee satisfaction IT departments and specialists barely take time out to respond to business user requests. Departments that previously had no access to their own data without communicating experts or IT can now jump into data analysis with little training. BI is intended to be scalable, providing data solutions to departments that need it and for employees who require data. Brown-Forman, one of the largest American-owned spirits and wine companies, scaled American interactive data visualization software company Tableau to 1,000 global users, and discovered that it fit well within their current data set-up. Trusted and governed data BI systems increase data organization and examination. In conventional data analysis, different departments’ data is siloed and users have to access numerous databases to reply their reporting queries. Departments across a company can access the same data at one time. Award-winning marketing agency Tinuiti centralized over 100 data sources using BI technology, saving their customers hundreds of hours of analysis time. The Challenge Case study: Heathrow International Airport Being one of the busiest airports, Heathrow International Airport manages over passengers 0.2m every day, which is a Herculean undertaking. The situation can be exacerbated by stormy weather, delayed and canceled flights, shifts in jet streams, etc, disrupting the airport’s smooth functioning. Given these issues, the airport needed a Central Management System that would use the huge amounts of data being produced by operational systems at the airport and convert it into useful visual insights. Heathrow has deployed Microsoft Azure technology to gather data from back-end operational systems such as check-in counters, baggage tracking systems, flight schedules, weather tracking systems, cargo tracking and many more. Power BI converts the rudimentary operational data into useful visuals showing different statuses and figures of the airport systems. This data is about flight movements, security queues, passenger transfers, and immigration queues. Eventually, Power BI uses data from these Azure services for analysis and construal. Then, the ground staff use this information to appropriately run and manage passengers. Nearly 75,000 airport employees have information on their fingertips thanks to Power BI. Key Business Intelligence Trends Here’s a list of some key business intelligence trends. Artificial intelligence Data security Data discovery/visualization SaaS BI Predictive and prescriptive analytics tools Real-time data and analytics Collaborative business intelligence Mobile BI Data automation Embedded analytics Four Pillars of Power BI The four strong pillars of Power BI include: Power query Data model Power BI desktop Power BI service Top reasons to use Power BI for business analytics It’s easy to connect your data together It’s powerful and efficient It enables more cutting-edge analytics with familiar Excel features It brings together data governance and security It has the ability to customize Power BI app navigation Advanced Dashboard Detailed Overview of Power BI Trends & Practices You must have heard someone mention wearable technology, but do you know what exactly it means? What is wearable technology? Wearable technology is a general term for a group of devices — including fitness trackers and smartwatches — that you can wear all day. These gadgets can actually connect with devices, such as computers and smartphones, which means they are able to do a number of amazing things. Types of wearables Smartwatches Fitness trackers Sport watches Head-mounted displays VR AR/smart glasses Hearables Consumer health 4 ways wearable technology can improve our life Wearable Technology Keeps Us Fit It goes without saying that wearable technology seeks to improve users’ lives in more ways than one. Millions of people around the world are taking advantage of the technology to stay fit and in good shape. One of today’s top health-driven wearable gadgets is the FitBit Flex. The bracelet comes with numerous monitoring features to help you create objectives and improve your fitness. This device helps you track your activity levels, your sleep cycle, and your food intake while checking your progress and setting objectives. The gadget keeps a watch on your physical activity by tracking your steps, calories burned, or the distance you travel during a day. Enterprise Situational Awareness Situational awareness (SA) is the process of gathering information from across your organization, creating it into usable intelligence, and spreading it efficiently so your employees comprehend how to make good decisions to keep your organization, its assets, and its employees safe and secure. These technologies are likely to revolutionize disaster recovery and emergency response by letting emergency services access more information while vigorously conducting their critical tasks. Providing key information can provide critical information for decision-makers. During an incident that requires portrayal of the incident command system approach; many of the decisions are made based on face-to-face or radio-based reports. Information from wearables could decrease imprecisions caused by inappropriately communicated information and provide precise situational awareness. The Growth of Wearable Devices Although wearable technology and devices may seem like a new trend, in reality they have been around for quite some time. Tech giants IBM and Olympus are considered to be the trailblazers in the realm of wearable technology. As far back as 1999, the companies released the PC Eye-Trek, which essentially bears a number of similarities with Google Glass, a wearable computer designed by the search engine behemoth to include an optical, head-mounted display. Developed to mimic much of the same functionality that is expected of a traditional computer, Google Glass also falls into a category called augmented reality because it is intended to provide people information about the world around them as they travel through their daily lives. Samsung, another technology giant, also came up with the Samsung Galaxy Gear around eight years ago, which epitomized another daring step forward for the format. The Galaxy Gear is designed to replicate and occasionally complement the functionality of a conventional smartphone. Challenges in Wearable Devices There are a number of problems relating to wearable devices that need to be dealt with for such devices to become mainstream, including: Power management Technological reliance created by augmented reality and automatic processing Advances in software architecture to compensate for the challenges of navigating on such small-screen interfaces Adequate security from threat actors with the potential to control the data stores on the device But with safety and other risks addressed, the hands-free and location-reliant processes of wearable computing devices could result in a number of applications. For instance, the devices could provide new capabilities for those requiring high-tech agility and connectivity in the field, such as emergency workers, search-and-rescue teams, warehouse staffs or anyone on the move. The systems also make it possible to track people, such as nurses carrying out rounds or emergency workers in the field. Every new technology has an outline and detection phases in its life cycle, including wearable devices. A new catalyst that will forward the life cycle of wearable devices is the overview of 5G, that will provide more bandwidth and open the gates for many choices like real-time monitoring of health and several apps working simultaneously. There will be times when customers will question the objective and use of such devices, and some people will discard them altogether. But the potential of wearable devices is too much to overlook, and one can ignore their benefits to one’s own detriment. If previous experience with the commonplace importance of smartphones is any sign, then the future of wearable devices is just as positive. Future of Wearable Technology The world has certainly enjoyed improved technological advancement which has enhanced our quality of life. Major fields of endeavor such as the healthcare and transportation sectors, and even the Fintech industry, continue to grow phenomenally, with the future looking bright and promising. One mainly striking innovation which is slowly becoming omnipresent is wearable technology, leading to the enhanced demand for wearable app developers. The usage of wearable technology has seen a stellar rise in the last two decades. There’s no doubt that smart watches, VR and AR technology, smart jackets and a wide variety of other gadgets have become an indispensable part of our lives. And this can be gauged from colossal investment being made in the wearable technology market. Detail Overview of Wearable Apps: Rust programing language, since its launch more than a decade ago, has managed to carve a niche for itself across a wide community of developers, attaining the top slot among the most sought-after programming languages. The key to Rust’s success: its ability to have control over low-level details, as it can be used to craft game engines, websites, tools, file and operating systems, and more. Simply put, the language, being very simple, swift, and light, bears considerable resemblance to C++, and is more focused performance and security. Rust was created by Graydon Hoare for Mozilla. Concepts of Rust Ownership Ownership is Rust’s most amazing feature, and it allows the language to make memory safety guarantees. In Rust, memory is managed through a structure of ownership with a set of guidelines that the compiler reviews at compile time. Owned data is only automatically removed when the retained variable no longer holds the data. This can occur when the owner variable goes out of scope and is wrecked; and the owner variable is set to another value, which makes the real data inaccessible. Borrowing As the name suggests, borrowing allows another variable to momentarily borrow the data in your variable and gives it back when it’s done. Several resources are too costly in terms of time or memory be copied for every reassignment. In these situations, the language offers the option to borrow. Lifetimes The Rust compiler uses lifetimes to keep track of the length of validity of references. The borrow checker is primarily responsible for checking references. In many situations, the borrow checker can deduce the precise lifetimes and handle everything on its own. But it often needs your help to appreciate it. If Lifetime does not do its work properly, several invalid references can be seen during runtime. Why Use Rust? There are multiple reasons why top developers make the most of Rust programming language, some of which are as follows. Performance Rust is super-fast and memory-efficient: with no runtime or garbage collector, the language can run performance-critical amenities, run on embedded devices, and easily gel in with other languages. Reliability Rust’s rich type system and ownership model ensure memory-safety and thread-safety, allowing you to remove several classes of viruses at compile-time. Productivity Rust has amazing documentation, a welcoming compiler with beneficial error messages, and first-rate tooling — an integrated package manager and build tool, smart multi-editor support with auto-completion and type inspections, an auto-formatter, and more. Rust can build powerful web apps Rust is unquestionably the best choice for developing web apps that offer performance that wouldn't have been possible using JavaScript, the long-lasting scripting language of the web. Besides, Rust can be compiled into Web Assembly, a promising new domain to bring near-native application performance to the web. In fact, Rust has become the go-to language for writing code that compiles to Web Assembly. The language is also likely to soon rival well-known web-development languages for its unique features. Rust is great for building distributed online services For networked services, Rust's trifling footmark and capacity to ensure memory safety across multiple threads make it a superb choice for services that scale across distributed systems online. Drawing data from different online services should also shortly be easier, with Rust due to enforce support for the async/await commands, which will make it much easier to write asynchronous code that doesn't hang while waiting for data to be delivered. Stack Overflow Rust has been Stack Overflow’s most loved language for four consecutive years; no wonder, many who began working on it fell in love with it. Nevertheless, the nearly 97% of survey respondents who haven’t used the language may question its credibility. But these skeptics will be pleasantly surprised to learn that Rust enjoys a leading edge over other languages with just a handful of minor demerits. Why you should learn Rust Rust is a contemporary programming language that is essentially aimed at solving a slew of issues which C/C++ programmers generally face. Here are a couple of reasons why you should learn Rust. The Package Manager Rust is one of the few languages to come with a built-in package manager called Cargo. Compared to other package manager, working with Cargo is an exciting experience. Reason? It uses the TOML syntax, which is quite expressive and user-friendly. Plus, it obviates the need for setting up any build scripts. Cargo automatically deals with compiling and linking binaries for your libraries and program. No configuration is required for production or development and there’s no need to worry about targeting specific platforms. It simply works. Also, you can still have them even if there’s no need to build scripts. Custom build scripts are regularly used when linking against C/C++ libraries, and take into account as much customization as needed. The Compiler While the Rust compiler is not essentially the swiftest one, it is certainly still very well designed and has a number of features that many other compilers lack. Initially, it features great color coding which makes the productivity very easy to read. The compiler is very thorough and provides considerable context to the source of your error. The compiler not only tells you about the error and where to find it, but it also gives the code straight in the terminal. It underlines the specific parts of a line that are erroneous. There are also exhaustive clarifications of why your code is wrong, and most remarkably, it can even tell you how to fix it. Note that in the above image, the compiler asks to add the mut keyword in front of window. If the compiler is unable to provide a direct fix for your code, it will still provide a command to give a more thorough clarification — typically in the form of Rust --explain {error_code}. Conclusion Over the last few years, Rust has seen a remarkable rise and we are finally beginning to see it intrude into large organizations and significant projects. Most conspicuously, WASM has first-class support for Rust. The language has also been selected as the most treasured language for two years in succession. Microsoft behemoth Microsoft has also been very vociferous about their embracing of Rust. Approximately, 70% of the security issues that the Microsoft Security Response Center (MSRC) allocates a CVE to are memory safety issues. By and large, despite being a relatively new language, Rust is in a very good position and is on track to become the number one programming language of the world. “Backend is the most fundamental part of an application.” We all have heard that multiple times. As an app developer, your main focus is the backend of the web application and you make sure that it works efficiently to support the overall application. Yes, the backend is the spine of the web app but we also know that if your application is not pleasing to the eye, you may face difficulty in selling it to the audience. Application development is a half-done job with a poor front-end. After all, what is seen is sold. A strong visual appeal can uplift the game of your application to the next level. To accomplish this task, you can make use of a library called ReactJS. What is ReactJS? How can it be smartly used to elevate the overall persona of your newly-developed application? What is ReactJS? Fundamentally, ReactJS is an open-source JavaScript library to construct flexible and dynamic user interfaces. This component-based front-end library builds the view layer of your mobile or web application. ReactJS is considered as one of the flexible libraries as it allows the developer to use it according to their own convenience and requirement. You can develop a little part of a new feature of your app, alter the entire look, or the whole user interface of your application. It entails the use of a few additional libraries that match the changes you would like to make in any application. The simple use of ReactJS has helped it gain much popularity and highlights it as the shining future of the web development domain. Big enterprises such as Uber, Facebook, Airbnb, PayPal, and more use React JS for their user interface. How does ReactJS function? ReactJS was introduced by Facebook when a team of developers from the franchise comprehended that the Document Object Model (DOM) is confined to a programming interface for XML and HTML documents only. They realized that it only explains the documents of a logical structure and their accessibility of manipulation. ReactJS introduces virtual DOM which it implements in JavaScript as a tree representation. Hence, when it requires to write or read to the DOM, the virtual representation is used which is a systematic and effective way to upgrade the browser’s DOM. Contrasting to browser DOM components, React components are plain objects and are cheap to make. React DOM takes care of repairing the DOM to coordinate with the React elements. The reason for this is often that JavaScript is exceptionally quick and it is a sensible decision to maintain a DOM tree in it that accelerates its basic manipulations. Although ReactJS was conceived to be utilized within the browser, its genius design has enabled it to be used within the server with Node.js. What Are the Advantages of ReactJS? 1. The Data Flow ReactJS obeys unidirectional data flow. During the designing process, developers take parent component to nest child component within. But, with the flow of data being unidirectional, the debugging becomes simple and the errors can be easily spotted and rectified. 2. The Performance The virtual DOM in ReactJS makes the applications comparatively faster. Moreover, Virtual DOM makes the updating easy. How? By comparing the previous states and updating the features of the Real DOM that require alterations, the updates are simple because the entire application does not have to be updated anymore. 3. Easy Learning From the beginners’ point of view, ReactJS can be easily learned because it is the amalgamation of JavaScript and HTML concepts. If a learner spends the right amount of time with multiple tools and frameworks, he or she can learn the ropes of ReactJS’s library with some added advantages. 4. Web and Mobile Applications There has been a misconception that ReactJS is only restricted to application development, which is certainly false. The framework for ReactJS called React Native that is originated from the ReactJS itself which is extensively used for the development of the amazing visuals of mobile applications. This property makes ReactJS a dual-platform library. 5. The Diversity The diversity of ReactJS makes it easily accessible for other frameworks such as Vue, jQuery, Angular, and Backbone, as it is not a framework itself. 6. The Components Components make or break the application as they pose to be the pillar React application. Mostly, one application is made up of various components. ReactJS components can be reused in the entire application that smartly decreases the development time of an application. These components encompass strong logics that assists in reusability. What are the requirements to learn ReactJS? For people with a keen interest in ReactJS, there are a few prerequisites that will pave the way for quick learning such as HTML Handful knowledge of JavaScript and ES6 CSS Basic understanding of Node and NPM Elementary programming concepts such as arrays, classes, functions, objects, etc. Conclusion A course for the learning of ReactJS can take you a long way. With the help of some basic understanding, you can make the most of this rapidly growing library. Learn it today and take the visual magic of your application one step ahead. Page speed optimization is the key factor that determines success for modern online businesses. Poor website performance ruins a company’s goodwill and undermines its reputation when the agony of waiting for slow web pages to load forces visitors to opt for alternatives. What is Page Speed? Page speed is the length of time it takes to show all the content on a certain page or the span of time it takes for a browser to collect a web server’s first. Every page component, i.e., its HTML code, CSS that styles page elements, several JavaScript files, pictures, videos and other multimedia and so much more, impacts the page speed. Thanks to the differences in technology, page speed is gauged distinctly on desktop and mobile devices, with users finding the experience exciting. Page Speed vs. Site Speed From their nomenclatures, page speed and site speed look quite similar, but in fact they are quite different from each other. Site speed is the average of numerous model pages on a website, while page speed explains how long an individual will wait to begin using a specific page. Why Page Speed is Important For users, page speed is immensely important as swifter pages are more well-organized and provide a much better on-page user experience. According to a survey, if a page takes longer than 4 seconds to load, over a half of users will look the other way. Speed is equally important for mobile users as well. The same survey showed that 75% of users reported visiting a website that didn’t load fast enough. Conversion rate is also greatly impacted by page speed. For example, a top American retailer Walmart observed a three percent rise with every second of increased page speed. More significantly, page speed is also vital for search engine optimization (SEO). In 2010, Google announced that page speed would be included as one of the ranking features for their search index. And a few years ago, the company announced they will give page speed even more attention, integrating mobile site speed to rank sites on its “mobile-first” pages, or pages that personalize rankings for mobile sites. The search engine behemoth also expanded the standing of the user experience by introducing Page Experience to its ranking signals. Page experience gestures aim to assess web pages by the quality of their user experience for real people. Simply put, they expand Google's recent on-page standards with features that impact the individual's experience while using the content. In fact, page speed is one of the most important factors that influence it. Page Speed Metrics Page speed is a complex phenomenon. Therefore, to overcome any issues associated with it, it is important to comprehend how it is measured. There are numerous metrics that impact or are relevant to page speed: Load time: It describes how long it takes for a whole page to show in a browser's window. It’s worth noting that for that to occur, all file and script must be loaded and all HTTP requests have to be satisfied. Page size: It describes the overall size of all features — including code elements, scripts, images, and other files — a page comprises. Time to First Byte (TTFB): It measures the time between a browser requesting the page and the first byte of the information is returned by the server. Round Trip Time (RTT): It describes the time it takes for the complete request for information: from the moment the browser makes the request, to the time it takes to reach the server, and how long it takes for the response to return to the browser. Factors that Slow Pages Down With these convincing figures, you surely want to ensure your site is loading swiftly. Here are some of the factors that might decelerate your site’s speed. Primarily, a heavy image page, particularly on sites with receptive or high DPI images, can load sluggishly. Enhancing images can make your website more lightweight; so can allocating them through a content delivery network (CDN) to render those files from location closer to where the user is. Another problem happens if your web page has a number of large files that must be downloaded. Rendering too many JavaScript scripts might decelerate a page as well. A JavaScript compression or minimization tool reduces your download size. Another grave problem is rendering scripts too early or too late. Often, webmasters design their pages to be expended only after the whole content has been loaded. Evaluating Page Speed You may not be aware how users are dealing with your website if you don’t evaluate page speed. Google’s PageSpeed Insights allows you to see your pages’ load speed score, as well as giving you the aforementioned reasons that your page may not be loading as fast as it could be. Nevertheless, the averages provided by these Google tools do not constantly paint a complete picture. A swift look provides valuable insights as you make the changes that Google's PageSpeed insights suggests. You can do pre and post analysis and also correlate the changes to see if that led to a rise in traffic and conversion on your site. However, one thing is crystal-clear: optimizing your page speed is essential for the future. And your entire focus should be on improving the speed of your web page. React Native is an open-source framework which allows developers to build cross-platform mobile applications using JavaScript. Developed by Facebook, the framework enables one to design a mobile application by using the same design principles used to design a web application with ReactJs framework. It lets the developer build mobile application UI by compiling several components. Prior to React native, other options like Cordova, ionic were available to build a hybrid application. What is Cross-Platform Development? Cross-platform mobile development is the creation of software applications that are in sync with several mobile operating systems. Initially, the complexity of developing mobile apps was exacerbated by the trouble of building out a backend that worked across multiple platforms. Although it was slow and costly, it was often easier to build native applications for each mobile operating system (OS). The problem? The code built for one operating system could not be repurposed for another OS. Benefits of Cross-Platform Development Some of the advantages of developing Cross-Platform apps are: Codes can be reused Rather than write new codes for every platform, developers can reuse the same code across all platforms. This also helps reduce repetitive tasks, thus removing unnecessary work. However, it is not a new concept; it has been used in software development for several years now and reusing codes have had a number of benefits. Controls expense Contrary to the past when companies had to spend massively on various tools and technologies, cross-platform development now helps organizations invest only once for app development. No longer do they need to spend on creating apps for every individual platform separately. As for app developers, the same team, or unit, can be used to work on different platforms. Faster development time Once a single script is deployed, app development becomes much swifter. On the contrary, improved development speed leads to the product hitting the market sooner than earlier. Time can be spent on coming up with codes for a brand-new application, which is a win-win situation for developers, marketers and consumers. Easier Execution There are several technologies, nowadays, like PhoneGap and Appcelerator, offering a cross-platform solution that allows developers to make changes easily. For example, when a tool like Appcelerator is used, codes can simply be written in HTML5 and changed for different platforms. Simply put, it’s all about the application of resources you already know about and converting them for different platforms. This not only makes development of apps faster, but it also becomes easier to sync updates across all mobile devices. Consistency and Uniformity Using cross platform app development guarantees that the overall look of the app can be maintained across all platforms since the same set of codes are being applied. Customers find an app cumbersome and ineffective if they need to use different practices for accessing the same app across different mobile phones. They would rather use one that looks and feels the same on both devices. One of the major goals of a mobile app developer is to acquire as many customers as possible or aim for a targeted market and fully engage the customers. It is not a tough prospect when most of the targeted audience is using the same platform. It is then easy to select which platform to develop the app on. But when the objective is to target a massive audience who could be using iPhone, Android, Windows Phone and others, the app would have to be made separately for the diverse platforms. This is where cross platform mobile app development is beneficial. As with all things technological, it may be hard to execute, but the advantages do generally provide a better view for app development. What is React Native? First released by Facebook in 2015, React Native, or RN, is a widely used JavaScript-based mobile app framework that lets you create natively-rendered mobile applications for iOS and Android. In just a few years, React Native has become one of the leading solutions used for mobile development. The app development is used to run some of the world’s foremost mobile apps, including Instagram, Facebook, and Skype. What is Flutter? Flutter was introduced by Google in 2015, but today the buzz around it has grown stronger. Flutter is a cross-platform tool designed for building Android and iOS apps from a single code base by using a contemporary, responsive framework. In a very short span of time, Flutter has managed to gain traction among developers. Today, app stores are graced by a slew of Flutter apps, including the Alibaba app with 50 million users. In addition, Flutter is not only growing at a rapid pace, but it also offers swifter development than React Native. What’s more, Flutter is free and open source, and it’s based on Dart, a relatively new but fast, goal-oriented programming language. Plus, it provides its own widgets — which are fast, catchy, and customizable —and drawn from its own high-performance rendering engine. 10 Amazing Apps Built Using Flutter Framework Google Ads (Utility) Alibaba (eCommerce) Reflectly (Lifestyle) Birch Finance (Finance) Hamilton Musical (Entertainment) Coach Yourself (Health and Fitness) Hookle (Social) Watermaniac (Health & Fitness) Cryptograph (Finance) SG BusTracker (Maps & Navigation) Machine learning is an integral element of today's technologically-driven world. It has become a source of making programming scalable in a way that helps developers in the perfect production of apps and users to make the most of the high-tech systems. But first, let’s take a look at what machine learning is. What is Machine Learning? Machine learning is the use or implementation of artificial intelligence in which the machine or computer learns the behavior of past activities and predicts future actions accordingly. Without following specific instructions, machine learning makes use of an algorithm that helps in analyzing the data and form the regular patterns of the data. Basically, it is the application of artificial intelligence-based systems that allows automatic learning and enhances the system without having to be individually programmed for the purpose. The advancement and development of computer programs with which the data is easy to access and can be learned are possible via machine learning. The learning cycle of machine learning depends on how well the data has been observed and consumed. The data may include a list of instructions, regular data patterns, and experiences that enable in contemplating and making a decision itself. The objective of machine learning is to ensure that the machine learns and performs an action without any external human assistance or adjustments. Machine learning is as diverse as primary learning is. There are methods of machine learning based on their algorithms, such as Supervised machine learning algorithms Unsupervised machine learning algorithms Semi-supervised machine learning algorithms Reinforcement machine learning algorithms 1. Supervised Machine Learning Algorithms These are the algorithms that learn from past experiences and implement them in developing new data with the help of labeled instances for future events. This learning algorithm makes predictions for future outputs simpler. The targets are then associated with the input for the effective results. The output is also capable of comparison to find the accuracy of the results and modify accordingly. 2. Unsupervised Machine Learning Algorithms The unsupervised machine learning algorithm is used for non-labeled or non-classified data. It learns the raw structures of unlabeled data to deduce the results. It cannot comprehend the exact output however, this algorithm studies the data set and draws conclusions based on the data sets of hidden raw structures of the unlabeled data. 3. Semi-Supervised Machine Learning Algorithms A semi-supervised machine learning algorithm is a mix of supervised machine learning algorithms and unsupervised machine learning algorithms. This is the type of hybrid category of the two as it uses both labeled and unlabeled data for the training. The systems based on this algorithm can invariably enhance the precision of unlabeled data. Although, obtaining unlabeled data does not need external resources, but semi-supervised learning is preferred in cases where labeled data demands the use of solid resources for their training and learning. 4. Reinforcement Machine Learning Algorithms The reinforcement machine learning algorithm is special as it provides a learning method where a connection is maintained between error or rewards and actions. The highlighted feature of this method is the trial-and-error search and delayed rewards. This algorithm enables all machines and software agents to automatically figure out the correct behavior of the context to capitalize the overall performance. Applications of Machine Learning There are many mainstream and trending applications of machine learning in today’s world. Let us discuss a few. 1. Speech Recognition When you are browsing on the search engine, it also gives you a choice to search by speaking up that comes under the banner of “Search by Voice”. This feature falls into the category of speech recognition. It establishes a process of converting your speech to text. The latest trends such as Cortana, Google Assistant, Alexa, and Siri are marvelous examples of speech recognition technology that follows voice instructions and performs the desired functions. 2. Self-Driving Cars You may have come across the images and the idea of self-driving cars which is as thrilling as it sounds. Machine learning greatly contributes to self-driving cars. It is the unsupervised method of machine learning algorithm that has made self-driving cars an exciting reality. The methods train cars and distinguish every object and person on the drive. Tesla is one the finest examples of self-driving cars that the world is aware of. 3. Image Recognition The identification of people, places, objects, digital images, and more is a form of an image recognition system. When your phone unlocks itself once it recognizes your face is one of the daily life examples of image recognition. Moreover, when you post a picture on social media with a friend and it automatically generates tagging suggestions with names is how the primary step of the image recognition algorithm works and that is commonly known as face detection. 4. Traffic Detection Machine learning has made it easier for you to know if your required route to a destination will face traffic. It predicts the recent traffic situation of the place you want to go to and shows you the correct and shortest route on Google Maps. It also tells you the duration to reach the destination, slow-moving or heavy traffic with real-time locations, and the average time that has been consumed in the past days. In a Nutshell Machine learning has made our lives easier in many different ways we were not aware of. So far, we had no idea how much of our lives’ technological use depends on machine learning. With this blog, however, we hope that you have gained insight into this domain. Git is the finest tool that provides a great feature on the virtual front. It controls the information for the code of when and how they can be properly kept. Git is presented as a distributed tool and can allow you to get the bonus changes upon collaboration with a series of repositories. What is a Git Branching Model? A git branching model outlines the branding strategy Git entails. It explains how and when a developer can make alterations according to their needs and connect them to your codebase. Git branching model showcases the simple tricks to accelerate the process of feedback delivery to developers. The major purpose of the Git branching model is to develop the patterns that are designed to conquer the challenges that you can construct with Git. Types of Git Branching Models Here are some of the Git branching models along with their pros and cons. 1. Git Flow Branching Model Git Flow consists of two essential branches: Main branch or Master branch Development branch The main branch acts as the production branch. The code placed in this branch is considered to be the most stable. While the function of the development branch is to integrate all the changes that are required in the system. First, the code is tested, and then it is merged with the main branch. The branching strategy you choose decides the supporting branches that will be involved in the process such as release branches, feature branches, and hotfixes, to name a few. Pros of Git Flow The Git Flow is the best model for the development lifecycle as it assists in the stability of a release. This allows the developers to follow a pattern that is specifically designed for each. The trick is to keep the development branch and main branch separately for the safety of your production code. Cons of Git Flow Since there is no association of the branches, it gives a troublesome history to comprehend the cause of issues that may occur. It creates problems for the developers as Git Flow complexity takes quite some time in the merging process even if fewer merge conflicts are causing the delay in the release. 2. GitLab Flow Branching Model GitLab Flow highlights the future-oriented development procedures. What sets GitLab apart from the Git Flow branching model? The main difference that helps differentiate GitLab from Git Flow is the issue tracking feature and the environment it is set in. In GitLab Flow, the main branch is the base branch. To work on codes, the developers have to utilize the feature branch. This further proceeds with the pull request when the task is complete. When it is approved, the changes are then merged into the main branch. Subsequently, they are taken out in the environment for testing purposes. Teams who make use of the GitLab model require a pre-production environment, staging area, and post-production environment. Pros of GitLab GitLab is the safe haven for premature codes as it allows us to keep them separate. This presents as a huge advantage, unlike Git Flow where the history is cleaned. GitLab helps in ruling out the issues in the main branch in case of finding them out in the production phase. GitLab gives complete transparency between code and the issue tracker. This allows in detecting errors and keeping a record of the history. Cons of GitLab With the variety of environments in the GitLab, it gets a little tricky to implement CI/CD. Hence, when the code goes through a multitude of staging areas, the delay in the release is expected. 3. GitHub Flow Branching Model In simpler terms, GitHub Flow is a more straightforward and easier version of Git Flow. It is best suited for smaller groups as is there is no task for the management for several environments and versions. The process begins with the main branch that is checked by developers to perform their respective tasks. Once the change is complete, it opens up a pull quest, the work is assessed and, on its basis, it is merged back to the main. The GitHub flow branching model has similar properties as the trunk-based development. Pros of Git Hub flow GitHub is easy and quite light which helps in the workflow for CI/CD. It is perfect for smaller teams because they are mainly automating, testing and operating in a single branch. Since the work is essentially done off the main branch, it helps in tighter controls and testing. Cons of GitHub Flow Every change is merged into the main branch due to which, there is a risk of production staying unstable. For bigger teams, this model can get costly for the merge because when everyone merges into a single branch, the transparency of other team member’s work is greatly compromised. Therefore, to make up for it, a big team uses tagging that enables the developers to understand the stability measure. However, with time these tags become confusing and outdated. In a nutshell Git has proven to be extremely useful in the past couple of years for some solid projects that require a great workforce and a strong branching model for understanding. It is hoped that the basics of Git branching model and its types serve the best purpose in your development journey. To cater to the needs of an IT business, it requires legions of professionals to be able to execute the needful. As the IT industry is growing, working with other companies, and taking care of a big international clientele, there have to be experienced people on board to strengthen the efficiency of the business and generate maximum revenue. One such role includes Business Analyst in an IT company. First, let us understand who business analysts are, why you need them in an IT sector, and how they help in the betterment of the systems and operations. Who is a Business Analyst? BA or Business Analyst is essentially involved in taking care of the structure of the business. BA plays the role of a mediator between the business requirements and IT to help enhance the overall productivity of the IT business. Business analyst in an IT company improves every product, service, or process with the help of software applications by analyzing data properly. When the gap between IT and the business is efficiently bridged, that’s where the BA is applauded. Moreover, BAs are also responsible for the proper employment of software applications and the latest technology tools to upgrade entire business operations and structure. This helps in the transformation and evaluation of the challenges the business may face in the future. What is the Role of a Business Analyst? 1. Research A Business Analyst conducts research and executes them to understand and achieve business goals. This includes the research of developing prototypes, your market competitors, the documentation, the analysis of the documentation, and coordinating with the experts responsible for the project. With a whole lot of necessary data and research, they gather the information and arrange the meetings with the stakeholders such as end-users, senior management, sponsors, and customers. 2. A link between developers and stakeholders A business analyst is a link between developers and stakeholders. At times, they run the team of developers and work as the lead to deal with the projects’ stakeholders in an IT company. A BA’s job description is also to assess every requirement and demand of the stakeholder and to understand the bigger picture in order to comprehend product specification and what has to be delivered as the end result. They are the source that needs to get the raw information from a customer or a client and carry out surveys and interviews to deliver what is required from the team. 3. User acceptance test Business Analysts are sometimes not part of the final testing of the product as software testers are on board to carry out the test. The result of the test ensures the life of the product and if it can flourish for the benefit of any IT company. At times, business analysts also take care of the user acceptance test in software development projects to highlight the user support and management on the project. 4. Preparation of documents Once business analysts understand the requirements of the project, their next step is to prepare formal written documents. When the document is prepared, it is shared with every stakeholder to ensure transparency of the process. How you present what you create is equally important to its creation. Hence, BAs act as the greater benefit when they have the understanding and expertise of presenting the end product correctly to the client. 5. Coordination with Developers When the project initializes in an IT company, it first goes to the stakeholders who establish their requirements and expectations from the project. Once the requirements are approved, the business analyst coordinates with the developers to give them a better idea of what needs to be done. For developers in an IT company, BAs are the guide to take the help from in the whole process. They ask them questions and discuss their queries for further clarity of the task. 6. Evaluation of the process One more thing that falls into a business analyst’s job description is to supervise the business process. The features, functions, requirements, domain, and more are the important fields that need a business analyst’s attention. BA introduces new tools and features in the business resources to modify the process. This implies that an IT business analyst can enhance, modify, and amplifies the project execution if he or she knows how to introduce new features and how to make smart use of the pre-existing ones. 7. Multiple projects IT business analysts work on more than one project at a time. They supervise multiple projects and expand their system by dipping their toes into various tasks simultaneously. They handle the larger scope of the business by participating in the pre-project analysis and help provide the opportunity for strategic addition to the process. Bottom Line If you plan to pursue a business analyst career path, we hope that these guidelines have proved to be of great help for you. IT business analysts can offer you great professional growth. All you need is a great place to start and correct guidance. The JavaScript ecosystem is awash with options, with several reliable web development frameworks and libraries to choose from. One of these frameworks is Vue.js, which is gaining considerable traction these days. There are tools such as frameworks that are available for developers’ ease, paving the way for a strong development process. Simply put, the language is a building block and the framework is the architecture. It helps developers’ lives easier and allows them to build the structure and maintain it well. You must be familiar with the JavaScript framework and market trends. The main in the list of JS framework is React and Angular. Additionally, Vue.js is one of the core JS frameworks that have shown substantial progress of 229% in the span of a few years. If you are interested in learning about Vue.js, this blog is the perfect place for you to be. So, let’s get started. What is Vue.js? Vue.js was developed in 2014 by Evan You with the help of different ideas from other frameworks. Vue.js is one of the popular frameworks for JavaScript that is designed to create web interfaces and one-page applications. Vue.js is used for both desktop and mobile app developments by making the use of the Electron framework. Vue.js is the preferred front-end tool as it has a JS base and the HTML extension to make it superior to others. It is used for constructing frameworks and to build user interfaces. Vue.js was built with the idea of making it completely adaptable, unlike the rest of the monolithic frameworks available. Its main library highlights the view layer only and it presents an easy pathway to be incorporated with the rest of the libraries or pre-existing tasks. Vue smoothly runs a Single-Page application that is combined with modern tooling and supporting libraries. This framework has a unique name to it, Vue, which sounds like the English word “view”. It has been named this way as the view depicts the UI of an application and the library of Vue.js has its major emphasis on the view layer by default. Why is Vue.js important? There are many factors behind the much-acclaimed popularity of Vue.js. However, the basic reason is that Vue.js offers a simple and smooth development process. Not only that, the learning curve increases twofold with the help of the framework. Vue.js is considered easy and flexible with high efficiency. It has a wide variety of genius tools along with the Vuex (a state management pattern) and routing possibilities (Vue Router). The framework gives an amazing speed to the development with the help of easy and plugins that are ready to use. This enables it to be a problem solver and stay cost-efficient for product development. Let’s take a detailed look as to what are the highlighting factors of Vue.js? What makes Vue.js a go-to framework? 1. The ecosystem The ecosystem of Vue.js is formulated quite clearly. This presents as a huge benefit to the developers who use this framework allowing them to pick a solution for every problem diligently. Now, developers do not have to waste their time in choosing the right and effective framework as Vue.js is readily available. Although the main focus of Vue.js is the view layer, however, by using Vuex, Vue CLI, Vue Router, and Vue Test Utils, it offers a great deal of solutions to basic development concerns. It not only provides higher speed to the developers but also joins projects together. The ecosystem of Vue.js is also adaptable that enables it to be an excellent choice for all your development tasks. 2. Easy framework Developers prefer Vue.js because it is the easiest one to learn and practice. Developers tend to start learning from this framework and once they get a good hang of it, they master it like a pro. All one needs to do is get some JavaScript lines to start with a bit of HTML. Vue.js polishes developers’ skills by enhancing the potential of every learner and transforming them into one amazing development team. 3. For AngularJS and ReactJS Vue.js was built with the idea of overcoming the weak points of AngularJS but when combined, it was discovered that it is the best and the desired attribute for the two: AngularJS and ReactJS. With the help of Angular, Vue.js helped enhanced the syntax in the ongoing projects, and React gave Vue the finest approach, a speedy and efficient performance, component-based method, and the most important part is the understanding of the crucial aspects of the management of apps and web development. 4. Time-efficient Vue.js saves the time of developers. With the help of Vue CLI, a system that is built to support the Vue Cire Team which assists in time reduction of the procedure. Vue CLI’s third version is a different world. It assists the project by providing solutions to the set of question regarding the project that helps the app development to be right on schedule. Bottom Line Developers have always given positive feedback about Vue.js. They say that it is a fun and brilliant framework that strengthens the development. The learning curve of this framework has enabled developers to be the best in their game. Watch Video Branding has always been a business-oriented concept for us. We have heard people talking about branding as a medium to establish their name in the world. That’s true. But this idea is not limited to businesses only. In today’s world, anything can be a brand. You, as a person can become a brand if you know the right way of doing it. A brand can be a place like Disney Land or a person like Elon Musk or Imran Khan. Do you know what has worked in their favor? They know the art of personal branding. First, let’s discuss what is personal branding What is Personal Branding? Personal branding is the practice of marketing yourself in a way that gains you recognition. With the help of personal branding, you become a household name if you stick to the reputation and impression you have created. KFC was originated in 1952 and to date, it is the name everyone in the world is familiar with. Yes, it is due to the quality of the food they have worked on but also the how they have branded themselves all these years. If I ask you what is that one thing you want to be remembered for? Even if there is one thing that comes to your head, maybe you can work on it for your personal branding. Personal branding is a combination of your skills, experience, and how you promote yourself. All of these properties combined can make you bring your or your brand into a leading light. You do not necessarily have to own a business to initiate your personal brand. You can use your personal story or what inspired you into going big. It is the online world and all you need are smart strategies and a sense of creativity to brand yourself in a magnanimous way. It is a slow process but it is worthwhile. Why is Personal Branding necessary? 1. Builds your audience With the help of personal branding, you gain a larger audience that you or your brand requires. How can you do it? You may start by making Facebook ads, create videos that promote you or the services your brand provides, and so on. Make the best use of content marketing to win in the digital world, this alone can help you earn a larger audience. 2. Gain recognition The purpose of personal branding is to gain recognition. Marvel Cinematic Universe, Justin Trudeau, Titanic, Game of Thrones, Roger Federer. These are some of the countless names everyone knows of. Although they are different in every way. Their agenda, their profession, their idea, their genre, all have probably nothing in common. But everyone knows them. They have created awareness about themselves. They have worked hard on personal branding for people to know that they are the big shots. Your objective, your stance, and your agenda are one of the few things that will set you apart and give you the recognition you truly deserve. 3. You are easy to find Personal branding increases your reach and allows you to be found by the audience. It helps our audience reach out to you and avail your services or understand what it is for them to learn from. Even if the world knows who you are yet they do not know how to find you indicates that you have not touched the finish line. Take personal branding as a tool to let people connect with you, understand your objective, pay attention to you, and get inspired. As much as personal branding is imperative, there are myths are surrounding the idea of personal branding that prevents people from practicing it. Let’s discuss a few myths about personal branding and bust them to empower you to go for it. Myths about Personal Branding 1. Personal branding being famous There is a misconception that everyone’s objective is to get famous via personal branding. It is not like that; you do not become a celebrity by personal branding. It just helps you achieve your respective goal. You can influence people and keep your privacy intact. 2. It is unnecessary Some people believe that skills alone are enough and you do not have to promote yourself. Well, this is not how the world works now. Skills alone are the half-won battle. People must be aware of your skills or what you have to offer and personal branding enables you to achieve that. When people talk about you or your brand behind your back, that’s when you know how important it is to educate people about you or your brand. 3. It’s a hype If you believe that personal branding is a new trend in the market that will die down with time, you need to recall a few names such as Charlie Chaplin, Elvis Presley, or a historic event such as World War. These names are even older than you and I are but people know about them. Why? Because they have been planned and branded this way. In a nutshell Like every other job, building a personal brand is not a piece of a cake too but if you do it right with the right intentions and planning, you can achieve your desired goal through it. Stay focused as to what you want out of your personal brand and work on it, you will certainly get there. Modern technology has brought a great deal of comfort to our lives. And mobile phone technology has emerged as a windfall for all and sundry in this day and age. When it comes to cellular technology, the significance of apps cannot be ruled out. In today’s world, apps are ubiquitous and have become an inseparable part of our lives. Even for the military people and their families, some apps have turned out to be extremely useful; they are replete with all kinds of information about the latest weaponry, soldiers, and cutting-edge equipment — all just a tap away. Therefore, we have a list of top-ranking defence tech apps that are essential for the people on the battlefield. Let’s take a look. MilGPS MilGPS is developed by an Australian software developer, Karl Urdevics for SAR personnel, soldiers, and professional navigators all across the globe. The app makes the use of United States National Grid (USNG) and Military Grid Reference System (MGRS) to plot locations on the map. The prominent features of this military app include the display of real-time locations with and without cellular signals. The app also helps military men to create and navigate waypoints of their choice. It is compatible with iPhone, iPad, and needs iOS 8.0 version or above. iSurvive iSurvive serves as the tech-based survival manual for military men as it has a set of necessary information such as signaling, communication, evasion, medical aid, procurement of food and water, navigation, and personal protection. The app contains educational content that is displayed as the survival manual for the users. iSurvive was created by a software developer in Doncaster Metropolitan Borough Council (DMBC) and it is supported by iPad, iPod touch, and iPhone and it requires 2.2 or later versions of iOS. Tactical NAV Ace software developers created Tactical NAV as a military-grade GPS navigation platform for military men, first responders, law enforcement officials, and search-and-rescue (SAR) teams. It uses MRGS to map locations with high military accuracy and graphics. The idea for the development of this app was presented by a US Army soldier when he was deployed in Afghanistan for Operation Enduring Freedom. Tactical NAV enables the user to make safe transfers, locations, and waypoints via email, Facebook, and text messages. The app is available in iTunes App, Store, and Google Play. Military Pay To make transactions easier and monthly budgeting smoother, Military Pay allows military men to keep a check on their base pay and the amount of money that mostly comes into their bank account. What they need to do is enter their information in the app and they are good to go. The app can also be updated when necessary. The app also helps military men to keep track of their extra bonuses such as hazard pay and flight pay. Avenza Maps Pro Avenza Maps Pro is one of the recommended apps for military and Intelligence communities all over the world. It is a mobile mapping app used for offline mapping and navigation. The app can be downloaded by the US Department of Defense (DoD) and Intelligence Community (IC) personnel. Developed by Avenza Systems, a software development company, this app has high-quality tools which allow the user to download maps on offline mode for offline applications. It uses the GPS of the host’s device to provide location in remote areas and without having an internet connection. The Bottom Line Military technology is an extensive field that has wealth of information on defence tech, and military-grade apps play a central role in its digitalization. These applications serve as the best battlefield tools that are of great significance in a military environment. Three decades ago, when the software industry was not as big as it is today, software professionals had to use Alexander’s Principles of Urban Design. This task brought about the concept and implementation of design pattern development. History of Design Pattern The idea of design pattern was then adopted by four authors: John Vissides, Richard Helm, Erich Gamma, and Ralph Johnson. By using this idea, they published a book called Design Patterns: Elements of Reusable Object-Oriented Software. In this book, the authors applied the design patterns for programming purposes. The book quickly became the bestseller because it gave 23 amazing solutions to many software designs. It was named “the book by the Gang of Four” or “the GoF book”. What is Design Pattern? Design patterns are like a guidebook to all your repetitive and conventional object-oriented problems. They are developed to provide ease to the developers and the general issues that they come across during software development. These reusable solutions have been obtained by regular trial and error by many developers over a period of time. Design patterns do not recommend the direct implementation of any solution. They are merely an outline or structure that highlights the properties of the solutions that are required and are designed according to the needs of every developer. With the help of design patterns, software developers get ease in designing new software easily and efficiently. The prerequisite is to understand the software system that a developer is currently working on. Design patterns present a common language that can be understood by everyone and communicated effectively for a better understanding. When the team of developers gets the idea of every solution, they are able to perform better and exhibit problem-solving skills. Types of Design Pattern The GoF design pattern are divided into three categories Creational Design Pattern Structural Design Pattern Behavioral Design Pattern 1. Creational Design Pattern The creational design pattern is specified to the class instantiation or the creation of an object. This allows the designers to enhance the flexibility of their method and reuse the code. To get into the depth of this design pattern, it is classified into class-creational patterns and object-creational patterns. For the use of efficient inheritance in the instantiation, the class-creation pattern is used while with the help of the object-creation pattern, effectual delegation helps the job to get done. There are three types of Creational Design Pattern Factory Method Pattern Builder Pattern Singleton Pattern Factory Method Pattern Factory Method Pattern is the commonly used GoF Creational Design pattern. This is the design that uses the logic of object creation outside the client and then encapsulates it in a class to form a Factory. It gives the interface for object creation in a superclass that changes the object type that has been made. A Factory Pattern is used when a developer does not want to hand over the control to accessing and implementation of classes to clients. This pattern provides Dependency Inversion. Builder Pattern The builder pattern is used when the creation of complex objects is required that can be in any of its components. It lets the developers create complex objects step by step. This pattern enables developers to create various types and representations of objects which is possible when using the same construction code. The best example of Builder Pattern is the StringBuilder class in Java. StringBuilder makes possible the creation of a String object. String object consists of many strings and its combination with new String object for concatenation. Singleton Pattern Singleton is the GoF pattern that is utilized for the creation of one object of a class only. The developer creates the object inside the class and its constructors are declared private to make sure that the instantiation of the class cannot be done from anywhere else. 2. Structural Design Pattern A structural design pattern is only concerned with the composition of class and object. By using the concept of inheritance, interfaces are composed that helps define the method for the composition of the object to get new functions. There are two categories of Structural Design Pattern Decorator Pattern It is a structural pattern that allows developers to link new behaviors to object. They place objects inside special object wrappers that have behaviors. Façade Pattern Façade pattern gives a simplified interface to any library, complex set of classes, or framework. 3. Behavioral Pattern The behavioral design pattern is specified with building and identifying communication between objects. Their focus is algorithms and assigning and creating responsibilities among all objects. Some of the behavioral patterns include Observer, Strategy, Mediator, Iterator, Visitor, Template method, and more. Behavioral pattern is categorized into three groups such as Observer Pattern Observer Pattern helps define the mechanism of subscription and informs objects about events. Strategy Pattern Strategy Pattern helps developers to define the algorithm family and place them in different classes and makes objects exchangeable. Chain of Responsibilities Pattern Chain of Responsibilities Pattern passes the request with the chain of handlers. Bottom Line In the blog, we learned about the design pattern and their types introduced by the Gang of Four. You may use these to strengthen the basics of object-oriented programming and increase your knowledge of the design patterns. Most of the time when a user tries an app, he or she gives it a single try to judge if the app works fine. In one go, they decide whether they want to use the app. If the app does not suit their needs or has issues, the user will not care about the app or the hard work you have put into it eventually, it will be discarded. Therefore, it is imperative for you to make a smooth and highly functional user experience which is where usability testing comes in. Before we proceed, we need to understand what usability testing is. What Is Usability Testing? Usability testing is a procedure that is carried out beforehand to check how the app works with real users. During a usability testing session, a researcher (also known as facilitator or moderator) asks the participants to carry out a few tasks. Mostly the tasks comprise a certain interface. The researcher then observes every participant while they complete the task and later on, their feedback is required over it. When the usability testing is conducted, every problem and confusion a participant encounters are taken into consideration. The problems are analyzed on the basis of which designs are critically examined. If more people encounter the same issue, it is suggested to formulate solutions for those usability issues. What is the Purpose of Usability Testing? Usability testing is performed to achieve a few goals which are: Uncover problems Discover opportunities Learn about users Uncover Problems The first purpose of usability testing is to unveil the problems a participant or a user might be having. The design-based issues are strictly monitored to understand the underlying problem that can be fixed to help enhance the app. Discover Opportunities It is certain that when a problem is discovered it will automatically open the door of learning for the user. Efforts are then made to improve the designs to strengthen the overall progress. Learn About Users Another purpose that unfolds with the help of usability testing is learning about the users. When your participants perform a task and encounter problems, you will learn their behavior and pattern. It will educate you of the concerns that may or may not come across to your target market when the app or your product is officially released. Basic Element of Usability Testing? The entire usability testing activity involves a few important elements that are the pre-requisites of the tests such as Facilitator Tasks Participants Facilitator The purpose of a facilitator is to be a guide. He or she is there to help the participants throughout the testing process. They are like an invigilator during the exams who examines students’ moves, their behaviors and keep an eye on them. A facilitator is responsible for understanding the problems that a participant comes across. The job of a facilitator is to make sure that the test results are valid and high in quality. They have to make sure to not change or influence the behavior of participants which is a tricky job as it is easy to lose this balance. Tasks Tasks are the activities that a participant has to perform. They are the evaluation criteria of the app that is developed. With the help of bringing in realistic tasks and how a participant performs them, it is assessed whether the app is worth the user’s time. Tasks are mostly open-minded and specific research questions are designed according to the app and usability testing. Participants Participants are the players in the usability testing. They study the product or the service that is there to be provided and put forward their issues regarding the tasks. A participant’s feedback is extremely important as the whole testing process primarily depends on it. The condition of being a participant is to be a real user of the product or services meaning that the user must have previously used the products or services in their lives. A participant may also have a similar background to be able to target the user group. Mostly, the facilitators ask the participants to explain their actions as they performed every task. This approach aids the facilitator in understanding the participant’s purpose, thoughts, and behavior. Types of Usability Testing There are two types of usability testing Qualitative usability testing Quantitative usability testing Qualitative Usability Testing Qualitative usability testing highlights the insights and anecdotes on how the product or service can be used by the users. It is best suited for discovering the problems of the user experience which helps improve the service or product. Qualitative usability testing is more commonly used as compared to quantitative usability testing. Quantitative Usability Testing It focuses on the evaluation parameters of the user experience. This usability testing is used to assess the benchmark for the product or services. There two most important and common metrics for quantitative usability testing: Task success time Time on task Bottom Line Remember that usability testing is here to give you a user’s perspective for many product-based or app-based issues. It helps you look at the issues differently and ensures that no minor or major errors slip away from the development team. An outstanding front-end design takes a great deal of multi-functioning properties, easy navigation, and some captivating visuals that enhance the aesthetic game. Building a perfect front-end design that incorporates these fundamental properties is an achievement for every front-end developer. These properties may appear easy but their execution takes a lot of time, hard work, dedication, and continuous struggle of writing codes. To put an end to this hassle, a genius team of developers came up with a framework that helped ease off the burden in the front-end community. This framework is referred to as Bootstrap. What is Bootstrap? Why do we use it? Bootstrap was developed by Mark Otto and Jacob Thomas from Twitter. Initially, it was created for internal use only but later on the founders decided to release it as an open-source product. Then, it served its purpose as the means to develop user interfaces present at all sorts of complexity. Bootstrap is a CSS framework to create responsive and mobile-first websites. The user range of bootstrap frameworks is quite wide, from independent developers to full-fledged companies, all use bootstrap frameworks. However, the main part of its application is the front-end companies. Ever since its launch, it has been the most famous framework ever developed for front-end developers. It consists of CSS and HTML-oriented designs for buttons, tables, navigations, typography, forms, image carousels, modals. Moreover, JavaScript plugins are at times also included. The best part about Bootstrap is the liberty it gives its users to develop responsive designs. The designs can ultimately fine-tune to enhance the look of every small and big gadget. How is does bootstrap help? Now, let’s talk about the latest Bootstrap 5 and how it helps web developers. Bootstrap 5 alpha Bootstrap 5 alpha-1 was launched on June 16, 2020. It took a lot of time to enrich the framework with months of long processes. The official release, however, was at the beginning of May. There have been some major developments that make Bootstrap 5 alpha a treat for the front-end developers. The development team has verified that the latest version of Bootstrap 5 is in the Beta version. What is the difference between Bootstrap 4 and Bootstrap 5? 1. Jquery Bootstrap 4 version coordinates well with Jquery and supports all of its plugins. While, in Bootstrap 5, JQuery has been eliminated and the version has switched to vanilla JS which has fewer functional plugins. 2. Card Decks In Bootstrap 4, the card decks are employed to develop cards of the same height and width. However, in Bootstrap 5, the card deck class has been taken off. 3. Internet Explorer Bootstrap 4 facilitates Internet Explorer 10 and 11. As for the New Bootstrap 5, Internet Explorer 10 and 11 are not supported. 4. SVG Icon Library Bootstrap v4 does not have an SVG icon library of its own. While Bootstrap v5 consists of Custom SVG Icons Library. 5. Gutter Width Unit Bootstrap v4 uses the font size ‘px’ with ‘.gutter’. As for Bootstrap v5, the font size ‘rem’ is used with “.g*” 6. Navbar Optimization Bootstrap 4 contains an inline-block feature and has a white color drop-down set as default for the dropdown-menu-dark class. Whereas, Bootstrap 5 has inline-block property removed and has a black dropdown set as the default in the drop-down menu dark class. 7. Jumbotron Bootstrap 4 supports Jumbotron whereas, Bootstrap 5 doesn’t support that. 8. Utility modification Utilities can be modified in Bootstrap 4. For Bootstrap 5, the user has a choice to modify and develop their own utility. The user can also use Sass to create the utilities and can also use the utility API of Bootstrap. 9. Bootstrap Icons Bootstrap 4 does not contain its own SVG icons and the user has to use a font. While Bootstrap 5 has its own SVG icons. 10. Grid Bootstrap 4 grid has 5 tiers such as xs, sm, md, lg, and xl. However, the Bootstrap 5 grid has 6 tiers such as xs, sm, md, ld, xl, and xxl. 11. Color Options Bootstrap 4 does not have a wide range of colors; the options are quite restricted. For Bootstrap 5 there are extra colors with variations such as $blue-100, $blue-100 to $blue-900. The variations help enhance the look of the app by staying on the same page. The user can also change the color palette with his or her own choice with the help of a color shades generator. Bottom Line There are various reasons people choose Bootstrap 4 or Bootstrap 5. However, we suggest that if you are using React or Vue.js and you are confused as to which Bootstrap you should be opting for, go for Bootstrap 5 and get rid of the jQuery dependency. With an outstanding color palette, RTL, and grid system, Bootstrap 5 can be your best choice. Web agencies and web developers prefer Bootstrap for it is the most responsive CSS framework and it gives them a variety of themes and libraries. You can choose your preferable version by evaluating your requirements. GraphQL (QL stands for query language) was invented by Facebook in 2012. It was introduced when the team, while creating a mobile application, required a strong data-fetching API that could describe Facebook and a simple platform for the product developers to learn. That’s when the querying language came into being and became famous in the software industry. What is GraphQL? GraphQL is the query language and a server-side runtime for APIs (application programming interface) which enables to provide clients the data requests and helps them to prioritize. In other words, with the help of GraphQL, the client’s application gets the exact and accurate data that is required from an API. It also allows the client application to call a single endpoint for certain types of requests that are made. Why is GraphQL used? GraphQL is developed with the idea to enhance the APIs, make their speed fast and flexible. GraphQL makes the APIs developer-friendly and integrated within an IDE (integrated development environment). It is like SQL but for the front-end. With the help of GraphQL, the flexibility of API stays well-managed by either adding or reducing the field without making any changes in the pre-existing queries. Developers can easily create APIs with the method they like by GraphQL specification that guarantees the perfect function to clients in an expected manner. When you send a GraphQL query to the API, you get exactly what you are looking for. It has the ability to return the required and predictable results. When apps use GraphQL query, they function faster and stay stable because it is controlled by the data not the server. The query process stays smooth with GraphQL as it asks you for your requirement in a single query. Then, it saves the bandwidth and decreases the waterfall requests which makes the functions faster. Moreover, it permits the clients to send across their data specifications. In GraphQL, you can make your API requests smaller by specifying the preferable types and fields. In the case of client-side applications, the reduction of API requests relies on the data that comes from APIs. If the amount of data that is transmitted is improved, the performance essentially gets better. GraphQL uses less time in the documentation and navigation of APIs because it is declarative for fields and types that cannot be declaratively stated. Therefore, GraphQL schema can also be documented. Basic Components of GraphQL There are four basic components of GraphQL Schema Query Mutation Subscription 1. Schema A GraphQL schema is here to define the functionalities the clients are able to make use of when they are connected to the GraphQL server. Basically, the GraphQL schema is the focus of GraphQL server implementations. The procedure is carried when the functionality is communicated to the clients. Schema explains the nodes on the data graph and the relationship of nodes among each other. The syntax that is built to write schemas is known as Schema Definition Language (SDL). The key element of schema is a Type. 2. Query The query serves as the medium of communication between the client application and the GraphQL server. A request is created to communicate with the GraphQL serve for reading or retrieving the values. In simple words, a query is a request a client makes. The query is one of the fields that are there to support points and arguments to arrays. The key elements of a query are fields and arguments. 3. Mutations Just like a query, the mutation also sends requests to the clients but the highlight is the data fetching. Like any other data platform, it requires a method of modifying the data on the server-side. If the object type is returned by the mutation field, nested fields are then formed. This helps in getting the object’s new state once an update occurs. 4. Subscription Subscription is one of the components of GraphQL that the query language introduces for the real-time connection. It is offered to the server to get updated instantly about the necessary events and conditions. The send request of data depends upon the occurrence of specific events. Every time a certain event takes place, the server utilizes the connection that helps push the event data to the client who is subscribed. When a client is subscribed to an event. It will help in the initiation and keep the connection strong and consistent. Drawbacks of GraphQL 1. Caching The implementation of a particular cache with GraphQL is more difficult than its implementation in REST. It is complex in GraphQL because of the different nature of every query. Every query is different although they can be part of the same entity and be codependent. Most of the libraries that are created on GraphQL have a competent caching mechanism. Conclusion GraphQL is a new technology introduced by Facebook and its implementation has been quite practical and beneficial for the users. It has proven to be the solution for many data resources; all you need to do is understand its underlying concept and benefit from this language. Quality is at the heart of all software development projects because it enables you to make a mark in the market and impress your customers. When customers appreciate your product, that’s where the hard work pays off. It is essential for your business’s growth to keep a quality control check that ultimately impacts your reputation in the market. The DevOps approach has made software development processes simpler and more effective. It shows the competency of the final outcome in the industry. Initially, development and operations teams worked individually but now QA and Ops have collaborated which led to the formation of QAOps. So, what is QAOPs and how has it proven to be valuable in software development? What is QAOps? QAOps deals with enhancing the quality of the software with the help of the DevOps approach. As DevOps focuses on the relationship between development and IT operation, QAOps refers to the amalgamation of development and IT operations. The objective of QAOps is to strengthen the association between the two business units. It allows the developers and IT engineers to develop and deliver high-quality software products. The process becomes faster and more stable without having to compromise on the website or the web application. When the QAOps framework incorporates the QA processes into software operations, it gives a streamlined and perfect software operational model. It brings the essential components of the continuous testing of DevOps like CI/CD and consolidates to apply them to pipeline QA processes. One of the ideas behind introducing the QAOps framework is to erase the probability of errors in the application of software development. It helps produce seamless collaboration between the two teams and everyone who is the part of CI/CD pipeline as they work closely to produce effective results. Fundamentals of QAOps Frameworks Some QAOps practices are introduced to eliminate the conflicts between the testing team and the quality assurance team. The names of some fundamental and high-quality practices are Automated Testing Parallel Testing Test Scalability Integrated Dev and IT Ops in QA Automated Testing Automated testing forms the strongest base for the QAOps framework. Automated testing refers to using the help of technology and tools for performing tests. It requires the least amount of physical effort of a person. To make it happen, QA engineers have to get into a deep study of automation frameworks. The specifications allow them to understand the processes better. QA engineers help decide the tests that can be automated which saves time and tests functionalities effectively. Parallel Testing In the QAOps framework, testing is supposed to run in parallel to the delivery pipeline. It has to be quick because if the testing runs slowly, it will have an impact on every delivery process. Indeed, automated testing enhances the process but if the testing is run serially, it is a problem. And to solve this concern, the testing engineers have to run many tests together at the same time instead of running them one by one. For parallel testing, large hardware is required with infrastructure and CPUs to simultaneously run the test. It takes a little investment with a few CPUs, but it shows great results without causing any hurdle to the delivery pipeline and no loss of revenue. Scalability Testing Once the product starts to gain the appreciation and gives you the desired revenue, that’s when you have to scale it for the growth of the company. To scale any product, software, or app it is required to add innovative features and enhance the pre-existing ones. As the products scale, the testing has to necessarily scale as well. Scalability testing tests the behavior of an application when you scale it up or down. Scalability testing allows you to understand the performance of the application and at any given time and condition that can invariably change by changing the testing loads. With the outcome of testing, you can determine the response of the application with respect to the differential loads. To streamline the process by following the QAOps practice, the QA teams need to have scalable infrastructures that are designed to perform and improve the speed of testing. Integrated Dev and IT Ops in QA This practice involves the integration of the QA process in the CI/CD pipeline. It is considered a final practice for the QAOps framework. The easy way to do this is by integrating development and IT operations and by making developers write test cases to make IT engineers detect the problems that are likely to be found in them. So, when the QA engineers and developers collaborate, they get the complete the conceptualization which helps in the QA process. The QA engineers are as important as the developers in this process because together they can create the whole picture. The collaboration helps in making the development and testing process easy and efficient. In a Nutshell Every software company wants to develop the best web and mobile application and quality testing is the only way to ensure that. QAOps approach creates a smooth and effective process that helps the development cycle grow. All you have to do is make use of the basic practices and add additional and necessary features. Automation is the new norm in today’s tech-driven world, and the healthcare industry is no exception. Gone are the days when the database of the entire hospital was recorded in a diary. Today, everything in a healthcare setting has gone completely digital and automated, with hospitals switching their systems to e-prescription software to streamline their processes and facilitate their staff and doctors. What is E-Prescription Software? Software development companies create e-prescription software for physicians to generate an electronic prescription which is sent to the pharmacy stores at the same time. This software offers many advantages such as: Reducing the possibility of medical dosage errors; Helping doctors and pharmacy stores keep a record of all your prescriptions; Allowing visibility at the time of treatment; Offering a single platform for workflow prescription that helps establish coordination between the store and the consultant; Helping expedite the medical process; Saving patients time and allowing pharmacists to improve their services. How to Build an E-Prescription Software? Here is a list of basic steps to build e-prescription software. 1. Thorough Research If building e-prescription software is important, its ideation is equally significant, which is why software development companies spend days on planning and research. Effective planning is the essence of this process; therefore, every element is taken into account during research. The key points are the challenges you might face to create an e-prescription software, how that is going to provide ease to your target market, platforms that can be easy for the people to use this software on, the highlights, or USPs of this software, and more. 2. Required Features Once, the basic research is completed, you have to decide the required features for this e-prescription software such as: Patients: personal data, medicine information, payment details, prescription, and medical history, order history, and more. Doctors: patient history, patient report, prescriptions, documentation details, medical records, availability of medicines, and more. Pharmacists: order history, payment tracking, patients’ information, doctors’ information, and more. You can add as many categories for the features as you want to your software program. 3. Decide the Platform After analyzing your target market, you can decide the platform for your desired e-prescription software. You can determine if a web application or smartphone application can be suitable for your audience. 4. Right Software Development Company In this step, you have to run your contacts and look for the right software development company that can assist you in developing your desired e-prescription software. Coordinate with the company that will bring out your vision and ideas to reality. 5. Engagement Model Once you have chosen the software development company, it’s time for you to decide on the engagement model that you think can work the best for your e-prescription software. If the scope of your project is pre-defined, you can opt for the Turnkey model. If you have dynamic work requirements, you may choose the Dedicated hiring model, or if you are unclear with the requirements of the software, Time and Material Basis Model is the best fit. The Bottom Line Integrating automation in the healthcare sector indicates progress because everyone wants fast processes and cost-saving and doesn’t wish to compromise on security and accuracy. The abovementioned steps for building e-prescription software can be advantageous for the team of professionals who are committed to establishing an efficient process in the health organization. Branding has always been a business-oriented concept for us. We have heard people talking about branding as a medium to establish their name in the world. That’s true. But this idea is not limited to businesses only. In today’s world, anything can be a brand. You, as a person, can become a brand if you know the right way of doing it. A brand can be a place like Disneyland or a person like Elon Musk or Imran Khan. Do you know what has worked in their favor? They know the art of personal branding. What Is Personal Branding? Personal branding is the practice of marketing yourself in a way that gains you recognition. With the help of personal branding, you become a household name if you stick to the reputation and impression you have created. KFC was originated in 1952 and, to date, it is the name everyone in the world is familiar with. Yes, it is due to the quality of the food they have worked on but also the how they have branded themselves all these years. Have you ever thought what is that one thing you want to be remembered for? Even if there is one thing that comes to your head, you may work on it for your personal branding. Personal branding is a combination of your skills, experience, and how you promote yourself. All of these properties combined can bring you or your brand into the limelight. You do not necessarily have to own a business to initiate your personal brand. You can use your personal story or what inspired you into going big. It is the online world and all you need are smart strategies and a sense of creativity to brand yourself in a huge way. It is a slow process but it is worthwhile. Why Is Personal Branding Necessary? 1. Builds your audience With the help of personal branding, you gain a larger audience that you or your brand requires. How can you do it? You may start by making Facebook ads, create videos that promote you or the services your brand provides, and so on. Make the best use of content marketing to win in the digital world; this alone can help you earn a larger audience. 2. Helps you gain recognition The purpose of personal branding is to gain recognition. Marvel Cinematic Universe, Justin Trudeau, Titanic, Game of Thrones, Roger Federer. These are some of the countless names everyone knows of. Although they are different in every way, their agenda, their profession, their idea, their genre, all have probably nothing in common. But everyone knows them. They have created awareness about themselves. They have worked hard on personal branding for people to know that they are the big shots. Your objective, your stance, and your agenda are some of the few things that will set you apart and give you the recognition you truly deserve. 3. Makes you easy to find Personal branding increases your reach and allows you to be found by the audience. It helps your audience reach out to you and avail your services or understand what it is for them to learn from. Even if the world knows who you are, and the people do not know how to find you, indicates that you have not touched the finish line. Take personal branding as a tool to let people connect with you, understand your objective, pay attention to you, and get inspired. As much as personal branding is imperative, there are myths are surrounding the idea of personal branding that prevents people from practicing it. Let’s discuss a few myths about personal branding and bust them to empower you to go for it. Myths about Personal Branding 1. Personal branding being famous There is a misconception that everyone’s objective is to get famous via personal branding. It is not like that; you do not become a celebrity by personal branding. It just helps you achieve your respective goal. You can influence people and keep your privacy intact. 2. It is unnecessary Some people believe that skills alone are enough and you do not have to promote yourself. Well, this is not how the world works now. Skills alone are the half-won battle. People must be aware of your skills or what you have to offer and personal branding enables you to achieve that. When people talk about you or your brand behind your back, that’s when you know how important it is to educate people about you or your brand. 3. It’s a hype If you believe that personal branding is a new trend in the market that will die down with time, you need to recall a few names such as Charlie Chaplin, Elvis Presley, or a historic event such as World War. These names are even older than you and I are but people know about them. Why? Because they have been planned and branded this way. In a nutshell Like every other job, building a personal brand is not a piece of a cake. But if you do it right with the right intention and planning, you can achieve your desired goal through it. Stay focused as to what you want out of your personal brand and work on it; you will certainly get there. Technology keeps surprising us with innovations every day. Things that seemed nearly impossible in the past are just a tap away thanks to the latest gadgets and amazing tech-driven trends. Smartphones have become more accessible with state-of-the-art features, making lives much more exciting and easier. Similarly, augmented reality is one of the exciting trends that has captivated everyone. It lets us feel the reality and enhances it with the hint of technology. What is Augmented Reality? Augmented Reality (AR) gives users the feel of reality and the enhancement of the physical world and its objects. Designers strengthen the inserting parts of computer-generated input. Augmented reality is not magic; designers don’t flick their wands in the air to develop that experience. They create inputs from video, sound, graphics, GPS, and every necessary detail to make AR possible. As a result, digital content is created which works in real-time and alters the user’s movement and environment. Augmented Reality makes your technology experience exciting and interesting. One of the examples of AR is when you can try clothes on an online app without physically going to the store. Or when the app lets you try the makeup without moving an inch from your couch. Also, some apps use augmented reality to create 3D characters. How Does Augmented Reality Work? Augmented reality augments the real images captured from the camera. It involves some basic elements. Registration tools Depth-sensing camera Computer vision Output device 1. Registration Tools Augmented Reality requires some tools such as accelerometers and motion sensors. These two tools enable the computer to give space in places where sensory information is required or where the focused objects have to be located around the AR user. 2. Depth-Sensing Camera A camera in augmented reality is required to create your desired object. The camera records visual information to add those visuals to existing objects and places. The purpose of the camera is also to distinguish the distance of the subject and its angle from afar. 3. Computer vision The camera captures the images from the world such as the beauty of nature or any preferable object. The images are then interpreted for reference by using the algorithm of machine learning (ML). ML algorithm brings creativity to the merged information that gives excellent results in the form of AR experience. For instance, when you capture an image of a car, you train the camera to recognize objects that look like cars. It uses pixels of a car’s image which it uses as a reference for the recognition of similar objects. So, when the next time you take a photo of a car, the ML algorithm will use the previous reference to guess that this object is a car. 4. Output tool The output device displays the final result of the AR experience. It can be a mobile device, computer screen, or TV screen to see the image or the videos of the genius augmented reality. Real-life Examples of Augmented Reality 1. Education With an advanced educational system, augmented reality allows the institutes to introduce dynamic 3D models in the class. 3D models offer a great deal of understanding to students with the fun facts that help them learn better. It is the best approach for visual learners as the AR adds life to the concepts with the help of digital rendering. 2. Online Shopping Online shopping is always the best idea for shopaholics who like to stay home. One can buy anything from anywhere. Augmented reality adds fun to your online shopping spree. How? With conventional online shopping, you cannot check how a dress looks on you just by seeing its picture. That’s where AR comes in handy. You can now check which color will suit your kitchen walls fine, you can check if the dress you are interested in buying, will or will not look good on you. Similarly, with AR’s implementation, you can virtually wear the make-up for trial. 3. Healthcare The healthcare field has progressed and introduced new high-tech tools to make surgeries simple and time-efficient. Augmented reality can take digital images of the critical parts for the surgeons in 3D view. This will help surgeons perform successful surgeries. Some of the examples of AR implementation in healthcare are 3D medical imaging and digital surgery. For beginners, they can use AR implemented apps that help them practice surgery on a virtual body, for better learning to avoid mistakes on the advanced level. Indeed, it will not give them the experience of real-life surgery, but it takes them a step ahead on the learning ladder. 4. Navigation apps We all know how important safety is and augmented reality is now here to ensure that your navigation apps are secure and reliable. With AR features, the safety of the navigation apps is correctly handled. Smartphone GPS is combined with AR which provides instructions to the driver of the virtual path. All iOS and Android devices now have this feature. The Takeaway Augmented reality has been around for quite some time as a part of business, entertainment, education, and security purposes. And the technology shows considerable promise for years ahead. Some of the applications of AR are already common and, within the next few years, the technology will be providing ease in dealing with more complex and multifaceted real-life problems. Software testing is an integral part of software development that ensures the efficiency of a test strategy. To guarantee perfect results, Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Machine Learning (ML) are essentially made important parts of the process. AI and ML assist in minimizing redundancies, detect possible defects, examine user experiences, and much more. AI identifies redundant test cases in portfolios that are logically the same and minimizes the duplicity. The duplicates that do not profit business and add no value are taken down. On the other hand, we all know machine learning is the basic element of any software system which have trained models that allow them to make human decisions. Salient Benefits of Artificial Intelligence in SQA 1. Tracks Bugs The bugs and errors are the culprits that can destroy any software program. In traditional testing, these bugs and errors go unnoticed and unfixed which later on creates problems in the development. Artificial Intelligence helps in the immediate detection of bugs. It takes seconds for AI software to catch the errors your software may have. Artificial intelligence automates processes in a way that corrects the flaws automatically which allows software teams to perform bug tracking. It also uses fingerprints to detect similar bugs. 2. Script Automation Artificial Intelligence minimizes the need for script automation because it is executed automatically by an AI algorithm. AI sorts the log files that help make test cases stable so they do not crack when the locators change. Artificial Intelligence has scripts that contain self-learning skills. It is efficient at learning page load behavior to create mock responses that a server has. 3. Testing Time Manual testing is a gradual process that eats away at your resources and costs. The alteration of codes needs new tests and AI automates test processes that allow the testing to be concise and continuous with a quick speed. The tools of AI give the actual precision for the number of tests needed to change the code. 4. Visual Tests Artificial Intelligence can detect visual bugs by using image and pattern recognition of visual testing. The web pages are validated and AI tests a variety of contents on a different interface. AI tools take screenshots and evaluate the load time. It eliminates the human effort and updates Document Object Model (DOM). 5. Improved Accuracy Normally, manual testing is correct but it still has errors. At times, the errors are overlooked by QA engineers and that’s when Artificial Intelligence comes in handy. AI does not miss any details in performing a series of similar actions because automated software programs are used to execute the ongoing tests. 6. Failure Cause Failure is part of the testing process. More often, when a failure occurs during software testing, the cause of failure is unknown. Team of developers and testers then have to spend time in finding out the reason for failure for which every line code has to be examined to spot the errors. To avoid the manual search of thousands of lines of codes, Artificial Intelligence helps in sorting the log files, detection of errors, scanning of codes in a matter of few seconds. In this way, AI helps in saving hours. Through this, a developer gets enough time to indulge in fixing problematic parts of the code. 7. Increases Over All Coverage Artificial Intelligence’s test automation strengthens software test procedures. AI allows QA engineers to store files and content, monitors the memory, and data tables. AI discovers patterns and studies the behavior of a database with respect to the results. AI software testing performs test cases in testing that offers extensive coverage. 8. Development in Bots The bots in artificial intelligence have progressed with time and practice application features. The power of AI is that it identifies every change made in codes and recognizes if there are new functionalities. When the tests run, AI algorithms start to update continuously. Hence, AI bots evolve and efficiently enhances product quality. How AI and ML in Software Testing helps The manual work exists and is quite functional but when you incorporate AI/ML in software testing, it enhances the QA testing of a company. Therefore, it is necessary to understand the purpose of AI and ML in QA testing before you start to use them. Application of human logic in a particular scenario testing doesn’t work well in AI and ML parts. However, if you wish to understand user behavior, the collection of analytics will create appropriate cases. Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning define patterns, settles the test scripts, and constructs test environments. With all these features, AI and ML help a company to use time wisely on developing new products instead of wasting it on testing. Bottom Line AI and ML in Quality Assurance have created a buzz as it helps bridge the gap between technology and reality. You may think that it will not have a great impact on testing but AI-based testing will give a successful future in the long run. Every action that is virtually performed on a website or mobile app produces data. And, do you know that this data can be used for making strategies and increasing conversion rates? Both of them are required for storing and using the source of data, which is why we need a Data Management Platform (DMP). What is a Data Management Platform? Data Management Platforms collect essential digital data such as a cookie, mobile identifiers, IDs, and campaign data. These are the tools that enable marketers and advertisers in creating customer segments for the enhancement of their performances. Moreover, these segments are based on location, demographic data, device, past browsing history, and so on. Data management platforms are also known as Unified Data Management Platforms (UDMPs) and are aimed at developing a centralized system for gathering and analyzing a big number of digital data sets that are originated from disparate sources. DMPs also help organize the data to allow access to the insights for data-driven parts of the business: advertising and marketing campaigns. What are the Benefits of Data Management Platforms? The importance of DMPs is not known to many people; however, it has a wide list of advantages including: 1. Consistent Result The result of DMPs is consistent, as they are not just one-off solutions. In fact, they are the platforms that give long-term strategies for continuous reporting. 3. Data Unification Data management platforms gather all data on one platform and allow you and your team to get a cohesive view of your customers. 4. Audience Identification DMPs offer great features such as audience extension and modeling techniques. DMPs allow you to discover new targets and customer groups. List of Data Management Platforms Here, we have a list of top data management platforms. 1. Lotame Lotame is one of the leading data management platforms where users get information from sources such as CRM tools, blogs, email, mobile, campaign data, social websites, and more. Moreover, users have access to some of the manual and fully automated suite of optimization tools. This platform comes in handy for marketers, digital agencies, and publishers as it boosts engagement on the relevant site and unifies data. 2. OnAudience.com OnAudience.com is a well-known DMP in the advertisement industry. It helps users construct audience-based attributes such as age, interest, online behavior, and more which hold supreme importance to online advertising activities. With the growing demand for this DMP, it has expanded support implementation and provides help to 12 billion profiles. 3. Salesforce DMP Salesforce is the most commonly used CRM software and is considered as a gem. However, many people are not aware that it is also a data management platform. Salesforce DMP suits those marketers' needs who are always on the lookout for capturing, unifying, and collecting data across multiple touchpoints. This DMP utilizes artificial intelligence, machine learning in the best way to complete customers’ data profiles and enhance their channel engagement. The Bottom Line The efficient use of a data platform can help you gain some profitable results. With new technologies and evolving landscape of data management platforms, businesses have seen immense development especially in data analysis of large volumes. While this system has to be well-planned for use, its growth surely signifies a brighter future for data management platforms. Choosing a platform to sell your product can be very tricky. Online marketplace vs e-commerce website -each set of options has its pros and cons. Companies can greatly benefit from e-commerce websites of their own as it offers convenience in this competitive industry. Nowadays, people do not want to leave the comfort of their home to come out and purchase anything. In this case, an e-commerce website comes in very handy for them, which ultimately benefits businesses. If a business has its own e-commerce website, it shows its seriousness to offer a flexible solution and gain a good profit. If you are still on the fence as to why an e-commerce website can be useful for you, keep reading. 1. It’s Easy These days people do what’s easy for them and sitting at home scrolling down the website is easy. Instead of going to the shop, when they get to purchase anything they like with just a click, that’s very convenient. When a wide range of choices are available on one platform, people tend to choose this option instead of taking out time to physically go out and get them. 2. Total Control Over Brand When you run your e-commerce website, you are the boss who makes the decisions. Your website stays totally under your control and you can choose what it looks like, how it works, what message it conveys, and more. Simply, it is your empire that works with your orders and you can create the shopping experience how you want it for your customers. The best part: you can directly access your customers. 3. Retarget Shoppers The ability to have direct access to your customer is that you can retarget those who visit your website with ads and those who have already shopped from you, and reach out to them in the future with bigger upsell possibilities. 4. Personalization Running your own website gives you freedom of setting up personalized content for your customers such as recommendations, discount offers, promotion, and customization of products. Through this, you can add value to your services which is not possible when shopping in the marketplace. This is also the reason e-commerce web development is very important. 5. Increases Reach All you need is an internet connection for your business to reach masses all around the world at any time. It allows your business to expand on a bigger scale and gives more opportunities than a traditional marketplace. If you compare the number of people who know your brand via e-commerce website to those who know about it through local advertising, you will see a considerable difference. The extensive reach allows your business to grow without having to worry about moving locations. The Bottom Line Traditional marketing and shopping on the marketplace are absolutely fine; however, it restricts you in a lot of ways. Having your e-commerce website is a necessary element for your e-commerce strategy. It helps you grow your brand and earn customer loyalty. However, you must not rely on one channel forever; you must diversify your sales according to the platform that suits your business the best. People have different expectations when their phones rings to alert them of a push notification, relative to an email or text. If the message like a social media post, is vague and untargeted, it will appear spammy. Simultaneously, notifications are much shorter than emails, and thus the one-liners should have something meaningful. With the explosion of apps vying for the attention of smartphone users, marketers have discovered that just half the struggle is getting users to install the app on their phone. The real fight is to stop users from uninstalling applications. The advent of progressive web apps has allowed a new possibility to show up: to send push notifications. The most successful companies are developing a new approach for pushing notifications that is unique. A successful notification strategy must take into consideration the location, time, and user demographics. What Push Notifications Are? Push notifications are clickable pop-up messages that show on the screens of your users regardless of the device they are using or the browser they are on. Subscribers can be on the browser anywhere and continue receiving these notifications as long as they are online or their apps are running on their devices. Browser push notifications vary from in-app notifications, as in-app notifications only appear when triggered on your mobile device by an existing application, while browser push notifications can be prompted on any device through browsers as long as the user subscribes to receive your notifications. It is an automated, transparent mode of communication between a website and its end users. Why are they important? And How Are They Beneficial? Push notifications are a quick and effective means of communicating with your audience. Why are push notifications of mobile apps so powerful? Let's consider the potential you can bring to your business from mobile push notifications. Alerts and Reminders Helps Engagement Whether you're developing a business educational app, a travel app, or even a work portal app, insightful updates are key to the effectiveness of your app. These types of push notifications can do a multitude of things, from letting people know that someone sent them a message, providing reminders to leave the house on time for this important interview, and telling users to update their app for the latest features. By driving your customers back into your app, mobile push notifications can have a huge impact on engagement if applied rightly to your messaging strategy. Opt-in/Opt-out Feature Users are able to control notifications from their device. They may opt in or opt out from them anytime they want. Apps and their notifications keep customers engaged when used accurately – not annoyed. Users can customize how or what they want to see from your app in a device's mobile settings. Increased and Quality Leads Several companies experience low lead count as well as poor lead quality as visitors are most often hesitant to provide personal information or one or more of the form fields make them think twice before filling out the lead generation questionnaire. You don't need to depend on capturing lead information for push notifications as you can add and engage subscribers with one-click approval without requiring any personal data. In addition, push notifications require opt-in permission, which means reaching the active browser of a real subscriber whenever a message is delivered is assured. And because browsers like Chrome, Safari, and Firefox are used by most internet users, be sure that you will also hit a wide audience base. Saves Time If you are a marketer, you know that it takes time and effort to build a newsletter or an email. The ability to write compelling copies, articles, offers, and illustrations on the go is not easy, but this is not the case with push messages as they are concise and less time-consuming. Boosts Traffic Push notifications help improve user retention. They not only help to increase the interaction on the message topic but also help to increase the returns you see from your application. Notifications can also be geographically dependent to notify users when they are in a specific location to discounts or promotions. Better Brand Consistency In your marketing funnel notifying customers to last-minute deals, discounts, and special offers is a powerful way to get an extra touch point. Push notifications are an additional marketing tool where you can provide additional value-added information about your brand. However, mobile app push notifications offer good visibility by allowing you to use logos in messages. Timely push notifications are more expected to be noticed by users increasing the crucial value to your brand. Encourage People to Interact and Actively Engage For re-engagement purposes, catch-up notifications are being used. They can motivate individuals to perform certain tasks, reward individuals when a task is complete, or remind individuals when a goal or achievement has been attained. If a person receives a push notification saying, "Great work today! You’ve successfully reached [ insert goal]!” This intensifies the individual's involvement of your app. Common apps such as eCommerce, fitness and music applications make use of this feature. Key Takeaway Mobile push notifications provide you with a great opportunity to be connected to your customers than any other platform. They are useful to announce major product updates and discounts as you can link directly to that feature or landing page. It's also nice to re-engage inactive customers and pull them back to your mobile app. Unarguably, the most successful form of online marketing is PPC ads. As the name suggests, it works on a pay-per-click basis – that is, the advertiser pays a fee to Google when advertisements are clicked on by a user. Google deliberately makes getting started on AdWords incredibly easy. In certain cases, it's as easy as picking a handful keywords, drafting an ad, and adding credit card information, of course. To give you a good idea, Google earns almost 80% of US search ad revenue. With this number and the simplicity factor, one of the best steps you can make in your marketing strategy is to set up a good AdWords plan. There are virtually unlimited ways to continue gaining more exposure and boosting revenue out there. So, here I'll show you all the tips and tricks to optimize your PPC campaigns. Set a defined goal You cannot optimize the PPC strategies without a definite and achievable goal. The cornerstone of your optimization process is your campaign objectives. That's why you have to make sure you have a plan to pursue before you start advertising for PPC. You'll then be able to compare your campaigns after determining your goals and see whether you've reached the desired level or not. Use high-performing keywords You need to evaluate the efficiency of your keywords to optimize your PPC campaigns. As they are the building blocks of all PPC campaigns keeping a check on them is very crucial. You will also see which keywords are the best performers by reviewing the performance report of your keyword and are actually paying you back. Another thing to bear in mind here is that just because certain keywords do the well is not to let them run as they are. Continue to make modifications to these keywords' bidding strategy. You will track the best bid for each of the keywords by doing so. Abandon low-performing keywords Pause keywords that do not perform well after analyzing the performance of your keywords, i.e. not generating impressions, clicks or conversions. Such keywords play a key role in wasting the spending of your ad. If a keyword cannot generate impressions, it means users are not searching for it. Assemble Negative keywords Negative keywords are vital keywords that save the ad budget by deterring irrelevant search queries from triggering your ads. They encourage you to make sure your ads just come before those who are actually looking for your offer. Negative keywords give you the opportunity to filter out any unnecessary traffic and save some dollars that the irrelevant clicks would otherwise have wasted. Optimize Keyword Bids The next step is to adjust your keyword bids so that you stay in the competition after choosing your top-performing keywords, creating your negative keyword list and culling your non-performing keywords. Ad Copies must be Persuasive An ad copy is your first contact point with your potential customers. The first impression is the most valuable impression, as the saying goes, so make sure the ads are convincing and engaging. To attract more and more potential customers, create distinctive ad copies. This includes the creation of headlines that capture attention. Many web users just scan the page and focus on the headline, so make sure the product/service is presented in an enticing manner. A successful CTA measures the PPC campaigns' efficacy and also improves the CTR. Include Ad Extensions Ad extensions are the formats of ads showing additional product details. You help your customers get to know you and your products in an efficient and effective way when you show additional information about your products. Ad extensions also boost your visibility, increasing your CTR and improving your overall ROI. Complement your Ad Copy with a Landing page Make absolutely sure that your ad copy and landing page are complementary to each other. Only if the ad copy is matched with its relevant landing page, your PPC campaign would work at its optimum level. So, it's important to write the ads while keeping in mind what's on the landing page. A/B testing of PPC elements is a must A/B Testing is a process that is omnipresent at all stages of PPC campaigns, be it in the keywords, ad copy or landing page. A / B Testing is a critical part of PPC campaigns as it is more relevant to your ads. Since the PPC space is constantly changing and evolving, you should regularly use A / B testing to test your bids, keywords and ad groups to determine which keywords perform best and which bit of ad copy boosts your conversions. Final Thoughts Never forget to track and record the data and results from your PPC. PPC requires constant analysis to deliver the best possible result, and the advantage of this digital marketing approach is that if you take the time to look, you can see every aspect of where your spending is heading. 5G Will Continue to Drive Cloud Gaming Innovations 2019 was the year marking the launch of the transition to global 5G adoption. The latest developments in the gaming world will continue to be driven by 5G. Realistic Virtual Reality Game Play As per Statista, by the end of 2020 the total revenue from virtual reality video games is expected to grow by $22.9 billion. Virtual reality headsets have enabled the development of games facilitating players with a realistic experience. Location Based Gaming Via Augmented Reality After the popularity of Pokemon Go, game developers will strive to incorporate AR features into their video games. In particular, the development of mobile games will be greatly impacted by AR. Mobile Gaming Continues to Grow in Popularity Game development will expand from basic gaming applications to high-tech console-level gaming. Handheld consoles make a splash in the form of secondary devices along with smartphones and tablets. Enhanced Gaming Experience More focus will be put on improving the gamer's overall experience. A 'Feeling First' engineering strategy would be implemented. Photo realistic graphics will be in the spotlight. A Re-Focus On 3D Recently, the gaming industry is experiencing 3D renaissance. The 3D console market is likely to grow by 15.15 per cent at CAGR between 2019-2024, according to Mordor Intelligence. Artificial Intelligence Taking Up Game developers have been working in the field of AI, with the latest technology and advanced game engines. Thus, adoption of AI in the development of games is likely to increase. Cross-Platform Gaming Game developers are trying not to limit such games to sole platforms alone. And it doesn't have to be for consoles like PlayStation, Xbox, or Android either. Instead, it can be played across all devices, as per the gamer's feasibility. Influencer Marketing has developed into a $25 billion industry yet many marketing executives are completely baffled by this, because it does not actually deliver the results to justify the hype for them. A major challenge facing entrepreneurs is competition, with new startups popping up every other day. We are having trouble standing out from their competitors including other startups as well as the major brands. In fact, due to limited resources, skills, and resources, a majority of startups fall flat during their initial years. You must focus on smart avoid being a part of this large majority. You need to attract people, engage them and turn them into loyal customers to make the business grow. And for leveraging your business influencer marketing is the smartest way to acquire new customers. Influencers have bigger audiences who confide them and thus can get people to trust your business. By collaborating with micro-influencers, you can get the best possible results with cost-effective startup influencer marketing campaigns. Pick the Right Influencers Start-up influencer marketing may help boost the exposure, scope, engagement and overall growth of your brand. The first step to that is to identify influencers that are suitable for your business category. A number of tools available online can be of great help here. They let you filter influencers depending on category, social platform, rates of engagement, and location. You even get their specific contact information so you can easily reach them. When looking for influencers, relevance should be your first priority. Without focusing on just the 'following' size. You should try to reach a small but active and relevant audience, instead of targeting a large audience that may or may not be interested in your message. Begin with the Micro-Influencer It's better for a startup to partner with micro-influencers who pursue a niche and passionate follower, rather than heading towards big celebrities. A micro-influencer has very committed followers ranging from 1K to 100K. Because micro-influencers have a more targeted audience, they encourage you to target specific audiences for your startup influencer marketing campaigns. This may be depending on divisions of age, location, interests, etc. Influencer Guest Post Another smart and budget-friendly way to get more visibility is via the guest posting. This may help entrepreneurs establish relationships with influencers. In fact, guest blogging will improve the content of the brand and ultimately it can help startups develop themselves as a figure of authority within their niche. Most of the influencers who blog also offer opportunities for guest blogging to keep content fresh so that readers stay involved. Choosing the right platform is key to creating brand awareness. Select the right platform, read the posting guidelines for guests and produce a pitch they can't reject. Affiliate Marketing is Integral There are two very different marketing strategies including affiliate marketing and influencer marketing. The former works on the concept of direct revenue, which means that companies pay for each generated sale or lead. On the other hand, influencer marketing is about getting to wider audiences. Brands will generate greater returns at their investment when combined to attract even larger audiences. Approach influencers to start this strategy and give them a share of affiliate revenue. Offer Free Products/Services to Influencers Everybody likes to receive gifts and influencers are no exception. In fact, influencers also expect businesses who contact them to offer gifts and discounts. Give them a sample of your product or offer them a free trial of your service. Analyze what the influencer likes and give them a treat. You can get a pretty good idea of what they like to eat and wear, and what interests they have by looking at their social profiles and their personal blogs. Both methods are successful and can help you get in touch with the influencer. Remember to be polite though, and don't force them to promote your brand just because you've sent them a present. Offer Them Valuable Feedback When you want to have a stable relationship with an influencer then you will need to give them some valuable feedback free of charge. Posting a comment on their posts like, 'great post' or 'rightly depicted, 100% agree' or 'excellent job' won't help. That is what most people are doing, and it is a total waste of time. Nevertheless, if you provide valuable and honest feedback, then you are giving the influencer something of worth. Sure, it will take you longer but in the long run it will be worthwhile. You may look for a typo in their content, test if your website is too slow or find a broken link on their website. Be sure that the email's tone is friendly and not harsh. You're trying to help them out and get their attention, not annoy them or make them think they are worse. Last few words… Using these strategies will create awareness of your brand, your products or your services. You can better align with your target audience and reach them with the right influencers and a strong approach. This will help build trust and inspire people to buy from you! A customer typically just needs a few seconds to decide installing a specific app. This means that you only have a few seconds to win over the customers and gain attention with the app. At the same time, the overwhelming number of applications available increases competition for user attention. To be competitive in the app market isn't as easy as it sounds. If you want to maximize success with your mobile app, you ought to be extensive with your pre-launch and post-launch activities. As the competitiveness is high; it gets harder and harder to stand out from completion. It is not just about launching an app efficiently but to pursue research and find out the factors that are the causes for the failure of the apps. This article outlines six common reasons why mobile app development fail and addresses areas for improvement so you can refine your strategy to meet market and product objectives effectively. Market & Audience Research isn’t done right Did you know 42% of startups are struggling due to the absence of market needs? A great thought in theory usually doesn’t work in practice. A proper research should drive the choice to launch a project. Does the type of app you want to develop provide a business opportunity? Are you solving a problem? who are the competitors? Do people reasonably want to use your app? Are you making life easier for someone? Offering a unique experience? Is the idea well enough defined for execution? You need to be able to justify that your audience would love your app, collect data to support that creating it is not going to be an absolute waste of time and test your idea with your target audience. To find out if your app is unique and solves a particular pain point, it is important to do thorough market research and check up on your competitors. A great way to do this is to build a minimum viable product (MVP) and then update it with more features when you start receiving user feedback from your targeted market. The application must surpass customer expectations and demonstrate that it is vastly superior to your competitors. Not Picking the Platform Wisely Another factor why apps fail is that the platform you choose isn't right according to your researched data. So, choose your app's platform not according to your preference but according to your researched demographic and market so that it can be beneficial to the people you're targeting. These platform-specific touches are very necessary if you want to exude an impressive end user experience. The hardware-based back button, for example, is an integral part of Android app solutions but may not be part of iOS implementations. So, you need to account for all of these considerations before launching an app. The first step must be to identify the platform you want to go with, and then move on to know the platform-specific guidelines you need to integrate for a successful launch of your mobile app. Following the Already Existing Ideas The truth is that app stores are already over-saturated with apps similar to each other. The most successful apps available today have a unique value proposition. In order to cope up with such a situation, as a brand, you need to perform competitive analysis, help you figure out the app's strengths and weaknesses and define your own competitive edge. Setting up a product that has the same characteristics as your competitor's can never help you win customers. A Unique Value Proposition (UVP) is the first step you need to consider for business success overall. Providing an Unimpressive User Experience For a successful user interface, the very basic requirement is usability. For example, if your app has a wide learning curve, you may not be able to offer a good user interface, because users are more likely to get irritated trying to figure out how to use it. The ideal way to impress the user with an experiential app is to keep the loading times minimum, have a simple registration process, and to take care of all the performance issues of the app before it is released. Lack of Thorough Testing While it's unusual to launch an app without slight bugs, make sure that you invest in QA. It can help make sure that there are no major bugs. If an app isn't properly tested, it's likely to be rife with glitches that affect user experience and are prone to crashing. A single crash is more than sufficient to stop users from ever using it again. Some of the most common negative reviews on app stores are actually about apps crashing. It doesn't take long for users of contemporary mobile app market to make judgement on the apps they use. Users have extraordinarily high demands regarding quality functionality and performance of mobile apps. You have to make sure the user friendliness is there so people don't get annoyed. Overlooking Customer Feedback Many businesses tend to ignore feedback from consumers about the app after it's released. That mistake can put company in real trouble. A business can only thrive if it values the input of customers and pays attention to what they are saying It was however seen that only a few developers of applications are paying attention to this section and thus losing opportunities to meet user demand. Adding reviews and comments section to your app is always recommended. Once you have this feature, it's very important that you go through feedback that consumers provide. Some of the comments can be critical while others can be supportive. This is the place from where you can collect hints to help you improve the app. It can be anything like a comment on the services you are providing, slow response time or the interface you are using. Overnight success for startups is only a myth. Things take time to gain name and fame. And it is not that easy to get your name out there in such a crowd of competitors. Let's us guide you through a few things that can put your marketing in the right way, without spending much besides sweat equity. Interact with Online Influencers Any free marketing strategy must be focused on building a strong online network. It's an extremely powerful thing to have people share your brand just because they want to. Look for influential networks and bloggers that target market keywords based on your products. Follow them on their social networks, comment on their posts, share their content with your friends, get in touch with them and let them notice you. If you are in a place where your service is lacking, get out there and immediately begin to be active with influential people. Target Small Niche Initially The journey to effective start-up is long but the foundation is obvious. You must first find a market niche of potential value in an unsolved issue, an unexplored need or an untapped desire to acquire success. Start with the goal to market to smaller, more accessible entrepreneurs. It lets you focus on those communities and those influencers without having to worry about the online marketers' larger community. If you don't start with a niche then you might encounter some bigger issues. Sprout Your Email List If you don't have a subscriber list yet, you can begin by using a landing page or set of opt-in forms on your website to build one. Or if you haven't created a website, you may even use your landing page as your main page – until it's up and working. Moreover, you can provide an incentive to potential subscribers for sign up. Here’s my bonus advice – try contests, they are a brilliant way of collecting email addresses. Design a Content Frequency Content goes hand in hand with the social media and networking. A surefire way to get your name out there without needing to spend much money is through daily publication of good content. Post stuff your ideal readers are interested in sharing with friends, family and colleagues. Do a substantial amount of SEO research and make sure your blog contains keywords that will help your blog rank higher than other blogs that post similar content. Leverage with Guest Posting It is really a good idea to reach out to fellow bloggers who are in your particular industry in addition to doing your own blogging. Offer a few guest posts to write and make sure to include a link to your own site. Additionally, extend fellow bloggers' offer to write guest pieces on your blog, too. Guest blogging gives you the opportunity to share your brand with customers of another. Stay Active with Your Leads Once you have a subscriber list, start sending out emails and updates to keep your customers informed and fascinated by what's happening with your brand. Do not flood them with daily updates, but a weekly or bimonthly email is enough to keep your customers in the loop despite making them feel like you're giving them an update every time you burp. These emails can also be used to help stay engaged with your customers. Send out polls, ask questions and provide the subscribers with a platform to send responses. Become Listed in Directories Online In addition to the local directories, here are some examples of online sites that can be used to help you get even more users. You just need to be sure that you are submitting your company to the sites related to your niche: HackerNews HubSpot Bing Yelp TechCrunch Mashable KillerStartup SpringWise CrunchBase Reddit Customer Experience Matters the Most What you do to make life easier for your customers and how you deal with their service questions will assess how likely someone is to recommend you and become a loyal customer. Begin by contacting anyone who set up a landing page personally and offer them tips on how to improve it, specifically and explicitly for their page. Make sure your support is top-notch and give people support and encouragement. Consider customer experience a ‘crucial component’ of your marketing strategy. Over to You So, what does a startup mean to you? You will get a fair idea after this guide about how you want your startup to appear. If you have a verified idea, funding plan and a fast-growing mindset, your startup is all set for great success. Managing an ecommerce business includes several day-to-day activities. You are constantly trying to optimize product pages, add new items, notify buyers of abandoned carts, generate and promote sales and coupons — and this is seldom mirrored instantly in your revenue. Chatbots help customers find information about the services that a business offers, check the availability of their goods, store locations, make reservations or bookings, assess the customer's experience with the service and many more varying directives. Here’s how they help serve your e-commerce business: Help Customers Browse E-Store A customer has to browse through your entire store without the help of an ecommerce chatbot to find the product that they are looking for. And what if they just don't know what they want? The more time a customer invests trying to find a product on your site the greater the probability that they will abandon the sales funnel. So, in order to rescue the situation, a chatbot can speed up and simplify customers shopping experience by helping them find the perfect product. Offer Products to Customers A shopper sometimes has no idea what they really want. They maybe buy someone a gift, and they don't know where to start. They may be giving somebody a present, and they don't know where to begin. Using a chatbot in this situation is valuable because it will enable the customer to narrow down items based on various considerations, such as price ranges. Under its guidelines, customers can conveniently see a number of products and go on from there. Help Ease Payment Methods Checking out is one of the most frustrating parts of the online shopping process. A customer typically has to go through several different pages: entering payment information, providing shipping and billing addresses, and making sure they order the right products in the amounts they need. The payment process can be completed with chatbots straight in the chat! A customer can even complete the entire shopping process from finding a product to ordering it - without having to leave the chat window. Follow Up with Customers Abandoned shopping carts are one of the major risks for missing e-commerce revenue. A customer may abandon his cart on a shopping site for a number of reasons. The prices were perhaps way too high. Or maybe the website required the customer to make an account, and they weren’t interested in keeping track of another login or delete more emails. In such case, an ecommerce chatbot will help re-engage such shoppers. Through reminding them of their abandoned carts, chatbots can follow up customers, and even provide an alternative to quickly complete the order right in the chat. Moreover, chatbots can be used to get customer feedback on past purchases. They can also prompt customers to conclude a product or site review which will help boost business sales and scale. Display Facebook Ads Facebook Messenger ads can be presented using chatbots. These Facebook messenger CTA ads direct user to the chat window rather than the website. After you have caught the eye of a potential customer with your ad (maybe by providing a discount code), you can have the Facebook Messenger chatbot ask the customer for whatever details. Take away... Chatbots are here to help you overcome the challenges in ecommerce marketing. They will you’re your ecommerce business generate leads, collect payment, and serve as sales assistants or personal shoppers. They're best of all available 24/7. The world of e-commerce is evolving. Online stores have become a heaven for buyers since they can buy anything, they want in just a tap! As with this rapid growth, ecommerce executives are looking for new, advanced technologies and strategies to implement in their ecommerce stores in order to expand the scope of their existing market and to bring convenience to the customers. Here are 5 tools every e-commerce store owner should consider Chatbots Though chatbots have been around since 1966 but now they have more developed and much better in terms of processing speeds and response to contextual awareness. Chatbots have already entered many operations in ecommerce. This year might witness many chatbot integration into messenger applications like WhatsApp, Facebook Messenger which makes the whole experience hassle-free. AI is now working to create chatbots or RPA activated smart searches that can complete any task more quickly rather than presenting data on all stages. A chatbot can also act as a personal assistant which can centralize information. With the automation of back-end processes, retailers are freeing the staff which is related to customer dealing. Chatbots are already integrated into ecommerce business and functionalities are expected to expand in the coming years. Personalized Mobile Apps Mobile apps have become a basic medium for any ecommerce store. Apps bring convenience, and can provide you with the details of everything you can get in the store. Additionally, personalized mobile apps are designed to showcase how a product or a thing might look and give result along with the product’s information. For example, a cosmetic store can offer an application which can integrate with your mobile’s camera and demonstrate the look of the makeup product on your face, you are willing to purchase. Also, it will give your business a presence on the smart phone. Augmented Reality Augmented reality assimilates real objects and projected images. It allows customers to use their own faces, bodies and real-life objects and try out the products virtually. This helps facilitate and help them decide what looks better on their sofas, shelf or even on their own selves so that they can be completely sure about making an online purchase. Hence, they will shop wisely and accordingly. The same thing will go with other purchases online. You can have a virtual experience so that you can be completely sure of buying a thing and not having to return it. Augmented reality has brought a huge shift in the retail sector in recent times. Voice Assistant Technology Voice assistants are the voice activated efficient technology. They are on the rise. As the time is moving and new technologies are coming forward every day, people are becoming lazy, so much so that they don’t even want to type now but give a voice command instead. And as soon as people are becoming familiar with this technology, the feedback received is very positive. These voice assistants are capable of performing various commanded tasks such as searches and help making purchases. etc. They can also do multi-tasking at a time. So, voice assistant technology is definitely a core of the ecommerce in future. The prime examples are Siri and Amazon’s Echo Alexa. Cloud Solutions All the companies are shifting to the cloud because it helps them enrich their customers’ shopping experience, make transactions easy as well as help make your brand evident. Apart from this, brands can keep their operating cost low and innovate rapidly. With the help of cloud, businesses are able to enter consumer data like their wants, behaviors, needs, expectations and concerns. Moreover, ecommerce companies are using modern analytic tools which are built on their respective cloud e-commerce platforms. Out of these, some data mapping tools allow businesses to assimilate technologies and access consumer and product data between the applications. With the help of the cloud integration, businesses are able to examine and estimate consumer behavior on various mobile and non-mobile channels. Mobile Checkouts Checkouts have been the most annoying part of the online shopping procedure for the customers. So, some really cool innovations have started taking place since 2017. For instance, Shopify’s speedy checkout options in which you can check out from any participating Shopify store simply by logging in. The innovations made in this area till now are just the tip of the iceberg. Some drastic innovations are still awaited in the years to come. In this techno-running era, old payment methods would be soon overlooked with the innovations that are going to take place in this area. The Future Businesses need to step up and look for the new ways to apply their whole potential into their e-businesses. All these tools are the future of ecommerce businesses. And in order to be a part of the race, one needs to embed these tools and opt for new technologies. Social media helps businesses to be in direct contact with target customers. Social media marketing is relatively inexpensive and allows the brands to reach billions of active users immediately. Launching a product using social media offers multimedia-rich global platforms that make it possible for each community on social networks to spread the message and let others know about your brand. Social media has proven to be one of the best channels for promoting products online for these reasons. Social Proofs bring Authenticity Customer rating and testimonials serve as an influencer, presenting the product in a good light to the user. It is always beneficial for the consumer to make an informed choice by understanding the experiences of other users, rather than having been swayed by social media advertising. That's why it is important to make customer testimonials or user-generated content the identity of your brand on social media. Hashtags help Promotions Recently, Instagram added the functionality to link other accounts and hashtags to your bio. People originally had to make do with memorizing the hashtags or using an emoji creatively. Now you can use the space to support and add hashtags to other location-specific accounts. These hashtags can be your brand’s hashtags or any other hashtags you want. Create Targeted Ads There's a lot of ways to target someone on Facebook with ads. You may begin by adding the Facebook pixel to your page. Take advantage of audience data provided by Facebook to target interest groups. If you've shopped online for shoes lately, you might find that you're getting more shoe ads than ever before. That's because Facebook has taken note of your shopping habits and added you to that list of interest. Announce a Giveaway Giveaways are a great way to get people’s interest in your product and broaden the scope of your brand. The great thing about a giveaway is that it helps you sell your product without 'actually' promoting it. The best giveaways are those in which the fans have little to do to participate. Those, too, are the highest in engagement. We'd suggest this way if you're just starting out on giveaways. So, keep your giveaway a simple and exciting. Keep it open to all participants and ensure that the reward is worthwhile. Link your Product on Instagram Stories Instagram feeds are now categorized by popularity instead of just chronological order, making it harder to get followers to see the posts. Stories are a perfect way of combating this and bringing your brand in front of the target audience. Stories help you to include links and mentions, making it easier for audiences to see and buy your products. Take Help from Employees Employee support is increasingly becoming a significant source of brand promotion. With the support of your dedicated employees, you can encourage them to promote unique and personalized posts directly on their social channels for further outreach. If you know that your campaign has a likely target demographic that suits your employees, involve them in easily shareable content. Contact Influencers Collaborating with influential bloggers and influencers is one of the best suggestions to increase brand awareness. So, reach out to influencers and work out plans to promote the products to different customers to keep them hooked with your brand or product. If you are marketing to your target audience in other communities, then monitor the responses to these posts. Talk about your Product on Social Media Communities Joining niche-relevant social media communities/groups can also serve as a good way to raise awareness about your product. The participation in social media groups to support your product will potentially bring better outcomes, because members are already interested or looking for the product as yours. Don’t forget to Tag your Product on Posts Shoppable tags are a must for retail brands, a feature which is available on Instagram and Facebook. They identify your products to your customers and through the tag shoppers can easily buy them from your website. Over To You! Whether you would like to market your brand on social networks through promotional items or business products, this is one of the powerful and engaging mediums for making your product stand out amongst competitors as well as for attracting more customers. The mobile app industry has changed the way business used to be conducted a few years ago. Regardless of the business type, each organization needs to integrate the latest mobile application technology to achieve maximum growth and expand the means for reaching the target audience. Since mobile app has the potential to ramp up a brand's visibility, every business owner wants to reap the benefits. The future of mobile applications also looks brighter than ever. Let us figure out which trends in the development of mobile apps will dominate 2020! Blockchain Technology Blockchain is a great technology beyond IT buzzwords and cryptocurrencies. And it has also made its way into the mobile app development field. Numerous smart ledgers and online wallets rely on blockchain technology. Expected trends are: Blockchain as a service (BaaS) Trading on cryptocurrency exchange Asset Tokenization ML and AI Integrating machine learning and artificial intelligence is very effective in critical activities such as mobile app development. Expected trends are: Predicting user behaviors AI-enabled face unlocks AIOps for automating IT functions IOT IoT items such as August smart lock, August doorbell cam Philips lighting system and Amazon dash button have won millions of hearts already. Expected trends are: IoT in healthcare AI-enabled IoT devices Self-driving and smart automobiles 5G Technology The 5G network's speed will no doubt be 100 times faster than the 4G network. The industry professionals foresee a transition from the 4G networks currently in use to the 5G wireless network by the end of 2020. Expected trends are: 3D gaming Augmented Reality Data security EMM and APM Enterprise Mobile Management (EMM) and Application Performance Management (APM) are two fundamental components of the company's mobile app development process. EMM incorporates the following components: App maintenance App security Beacon Technology Beacons use the BLE (Low Energy Bluetooth) signals. Once the device reaches the region of a beacon, the particular app detects this signal immediately and gives users relevant notifications and instructions. A few of beacon-enabled applications expected in 2020: The Beacon in physical games Beacon enabled mobile payment The Beacon in travels and tourism Wearable Devices A wearable has to have a working platform. For instance, Android smartwatches need WatchOS to work with WearOS and Apple Watch. Therefore, developers need to combine their apps with wearables. Expected trends are: Less reliance on smartphones Increase in the use of fitness trackers Augmented Reality and Virtual Reality The Google Play Store and the App Store are full of VR and AR apps. Augmented reality has been included in apps by brands like Sephora and IKEA to improve and enhance user experience and increase conversion rates. Expected trends are: Mobile AR disruption AR in marketing & advertising AR in healthcare Some other expected trends are… Instant Mobile Apps Relatively smaller instant mobile apps offer basic functionalities without requiring you to download them to your phone. These apps have developed better ways to reach target audiences who may not have installed them, and convinced them for installation. In 2020, markets are expected to witness many instant apps. Chatbots Chatbots have already taken over different aspects of communication in the mobile app world. Part of this is affiliated with the requirement that customers and service providers have real-time interactions. The use of chatbots is set to rise by 2020. Accelerated Mobile Pages (AMP) It helps develop heavy websites across all mobile devices, with high performance, fast loading time and lower bounce rates. Google's announcement says it will shortly be providing a mobile search box to help users discover mobile-friendly websites. In the future, AMP is holding a significant transition in the mobile app market. Conclusion Google Play, Apple App Store, Windows Store and Amazon App Store already offer scores of mobile apps. With all these trends in the development of mobile applications, the mobile app industry will continue to expand rapidly. Therefore, to stand out in the crowd, it is important for business executives to keep up with the latest trends and technologies. Mobile app development has been steadily evolving towards the production of both complex and progressive apps with regard to functionalities and design. The role of a mobile app development company is more challenging in terms of meeting the users' demand to be able to connect on the go and to provide continuous, seamless access to data regardless of location. 5G networks, the next generation of Internet connectivity, provide reliable connection to mobile devices with unimaginable speed. Mobile apps will function efficiently with the introduction of 5G connectivity, and will give a boost productivity. Let’s see how it is going to impact mobile app development. Speedy Transfer of Documents Countless apps revolve around the transfer of files, money, data or transfer from one device to the other. Electromagnetic waves are leveraged instead of radio waves and 5G proves to be a boon for such mobile apps as quick file transfer will take place. As a result, the user can stream videos in 4k and 360-degree without any interruption from their device. 2X Improved User Experience One of the key benefits of 5G technology is the accessibility of the user interface. You will notice a great deal of difference when you watch a movie over the 2G/3G/4G network, and then stream the same over 5G LTE. The new network is allowing users to substantially update the app's UI. Greater Efficiency For rocket-like speed and ultra-low latency, users can have more IoT, virtual and augmented reality mobile apps. And that contributes to a powerful and exceptional user experience. Not only will developers be able to increase user retention, they will also be playing a significant role in increasing the overall product revenue. Navigational App Development High quality, uninterrupted communication presents a new world of opportunities for the development of navigational apps. 5G speed can leverage tourist industry growth. The developer can create an interface with famous historical sites from different regions while providing users with plenty of exclusive 5G technology features. 3D Experience Enhancement With the launch of 5G, the development of mobile apps, 3D games and virtual augmented reality is getting a big boost. Mobile apps with 3D printers enabled by 5G network speed will give users the ability to create top-quality 3D object models. From all, this type of apps will be used in the construction and education sector. Chatbots Assistants Chatbots cannot completely replace humans, but there is no doubt that the 5G convergence would create better possibilities for prompt real-time feedback. The introduction of 5G technology shifts to Tactile Internet where haptic feedback is managed by the users. Minimal Reliance on Hardware 5G implies rapid communication in real time across different devices. It transfers millions of MB of data without any delay. The performance of mobile app technologies become less dependent on the hardware processing power of smartphones, as the data center is responsible for all processing. Benefits and Attributes of 5G Mixed Reality A big, 5G-dependent breakthrough is a mixed reality. Audio and visual reality expansion requires high speed and bandwidth. The 5G technology is most suited for this purpose. By leveraging this technology, developers are bringing innovations in the functions of mobile apps and introducing mixed reality applications. Faster and better speed The data transfer speed is 20 times faster than a 4G mobile network while adopting the 5G network for mobile app development. The videos and pictures are sent through the network at a faster rate. It takes between 10-15 minutes for a HD video to stream over the 4G network. With the help of a 5G network, it takes only a few seconds to download. No More Delays Users can download files, surf the web, and stream videos speedily, by leveraging the 5G network. 3G and 4G networks continue to face download problems, particularly large-size videos and movies. This won't be a problem for 5G networks now. The mobile app developers are testing the app effectively with the enhanced bandwidth, while sending real-time data across the network. Enhanced Connectivity With the 5G network, the mobile tower imbibes will have a greater capacity than the standard 4G/LTE. Thus, numerous people are going to communicate. As a result, a variety of smart devices will grow which will result in making the industry flourish. Last note 5G will considerably extend the possibilities being offered by networks such as 4G. With the entry of 5G mobile technology around the corner, it's time for mobile app development companies and developers to get in-depth insights into the various possibilities it is going to embed. To maximize the potential of mobile app development service in the future, recognizing 5G and its potential applications must be of high priority. Website speed is among the key elements of any ecommerce store. If your online store is slow, people bounce even before the page loads. As with recent updates from Google, website speed has become a significant factor for ranking. We have listed five ways that can help speed up your ecommerce site. Run a Speed Test There's no single strategy that's guaranteed to work when it comes to making your website faster and more efficient. The best way to learn is by running a speed test on the website to find the real problem areas. Compress Your Product Images Having high-resolution images of your products on your website has become both important and prevalent. Always compress your images before sending them to upload on your website. Every bit of size of the file you remove helps improve load times. Perform SEO Audit Technical SEO covers several factors that directly affect site speed. Running an SEO audit on your site's technical aspects is a brilliant way of identifying potential issues. Make Mobile Content Simpler If an online store is loaded with dense, massive-page features such as carousel sliders, heavy images and more, mobile often takes longer to load. Simplify to the maximum. Use: Fewer images and more HTML tables More sidebars and headers Embedded content Make Use of Browser Caching It takes a lot of time for a new website to load for the first time. Web caching helps prepare for the next visit by allowing the browser to store certain elements of the page. This means visitors won’t have to wait long to load the entire page next time. The development of an eCommerce site includes a lot of moving pieces. Therefore, before jumping into the head first, one has to take into account a number of factors. Designing a simple website is one thing, but developing an eCommerce site comes with a host of challenges. If you have finally decided to create an e-commerce website, the seven points below will tell you how you can do that effectively. Precisely Include All The Necessary Detail A detailed description of the product makes the shopper’s decision for making a purchase. They must know all the facts about whatever product they are willing to buy from you. Show shoppers how the product will benefit, and what features it has. Understand that people aren’t looking for a product but a solution to their problem. Also, add product description for search engine optimization (SEO). Figure out what people are looking for online and then use those phrases on the search results page to get higher rankings. Work Attentively On Search Functionality There is nothing more annoying than using an e-commerce site's search feature and getting hundreds of results that don't match what you've been searching for. Try to ensure that your e-commerce site uses qualified, reliable search engine software, and allows filtering for more advanced search options if you hold a large product inventory. Offer Guest Checkouts Companies with e-commerce sites mostly want users to create an account to complete a purchase, as this enables follow-up communication that encourages future sales and tracks demographic information for customers to examine sales. Nevertheless, it's important to keep in mind that not everyone wants to go through the account creation process while making a purchase. But for repeated purchases, customers should be encouraged to get themselves registered and enjoy perks like getting notified for any upcoming sale, saving their information for any of the future purchases. However, it's still a good idea to give an option to people who just want to place a one-time order. Put High-Quality Images It is extremely important to have high-quality images. The best way to sell anything is to get it into someone's hands, but since it can’t be done online, the next best way is to allow them to visualize the product with the help of high-quality images of the products. Also, keep website’s performance in consideration. Big images can significantly slow down your website load time. If a customer has to wait too long to load a web page, they may become annoyed and end up leaving. A skilled e-commerce web developer will ensure that images (and video) are optimized for websites so that pages can be loaded quickly while maintaining image quality. Keep Your Navigation User-Friendly Electronic commerce sites must always be user-friendly. A fulfilling user experience retains visitors to the site and keeps them coming back for more. Place product categories menus and links at a noticeable place, and make sure the names of the categories and the products in each category are accurate. In addition, ensure that every page serves users with an easy way to get back to wherever they want on the website—whether it’s the home page, finding contact info, choosing another category, or going to the shopping cart directly. Work On Responsive Design This is the era of mobile devices, be it a smart phone, or a tablet. Therefore, the use of mobile devices to access websites is constantly expanding, and e-commerce purchases are a major part of this traffic. It's extremely essential to ensure that your e-commerce website is mobile-optimized, providing users with the best experience regardless of which device they use to access your website. Marketing Is A Must! The website launch is only the start of the whole process. You must have heard that, "if you build it, it's going to come," which is a total misconception. It includes a lot more for attracting visitors to your new website. Marketing strategies set up an online presence to accumulate traffic, leads and revenues. There are several ways to attract visitors to your website. Here are just a few popular strategies that digital marketers follow: SEO - Optimizing your pages with keyword phrases people will probably be looking for on search engines. Social media - Communicating and engaging with prospective clients. SEM - Paid Google ads as well as other search engines. Content marketing – Delivering quality content for free on your websites can potentially bring new visitors and separate you from competitor websites. Email marketing - An efficient way of engaging your customers and drawing their attention. These strategies help bring visibility and traffic to your store. Staying updated with the eCommerce trends in software industry can also help you align your store with current consumer behavior and tech advancements. Wrapping Up In this digital era, e-commerce websites have the potential to transform your business. Not only can they increase your revenue, but they can also set up your business on a global level – without the hassle of running a brick-and-mortar store. There’s no denying that it takes sweat, time, effort and money to create an e-commerce website. Nevertheless, if you follow the right strategies, a good e-commerce website will not only drive sales, but will also retain more loyal customers than you think. Artificial Intelligence (AI) is set to revolutionize our lives in more ways than one. Called the next big thing in the realm of technology, it will help humans do their everyday tasks more competently and swiftly. In fact, AI and robotics are gradually becoming a part of our healthcare eco-system as well. So far, we have seen chatbots at pharmacies already, right? But the implementation goes further than these common instances. Below are five of the five domains in which AI will have an important role to play. Assistance in Surgery Information from pre-op medical records can be processed by robots to direct the surgeon's instrument during surgery, leading to a 21 percent reduction in a patient's hospital stay. Robot-assisted surgery is termed "minimally invasive" to prevent patients from healing from large incisions. Robots can use data from past operations, using artificial intelligence, to perform new surgical procedures. AI Nursing Assistants Virtual nursing assistants can save the healthcare sector $20 billion annually, from interacting with patients to guiding them to the most appropriate care setting. Due to the 24/7 availability of virtual nurses, they are able to give advice, monitor patients and provide quick responses. Many virtual nursing assistant applications now allow more frequent communication between patients and care providers during office visits to avoid readmission to hospitals or repeated hospital visits. Robotic Dentists The robot doctors will not be replacing the actual office doctors. But a dentist robot can do a lot better. It is all about dental implant procedures which can be troublesome if the procedure is messed by human error. The robot shuns problems of this kind. Moreover, the shortage of dentists in many countries around the world will also be overcome. It is remarkable to have robots perform dental surgery with a minimum margin of error. Even more compelling is the teeth implanted by the robot which were created using 3D printing technology. Diagnosis and Treatment Diagnosis and disease treatment have been an AI emphasis since the 1970s. IBM's Watson for Health allows health-care organizations leverage cognitive technology to access large amounts of health data and support diagnosis. Watson will review and store much more medical information— every medical journal, diagnosis, and case study of treatment and reaction worldwide— significantly faster than almost any human being. The technology incorporates machine learning and neuroscience systems to create efficient general-purpose learning algorithms into the neural networks that simulate the human brain. Radiology Tools Radiological images collected from MRI machines, CT scanners, and X-rays offer non-invasive visibility of the human body's inner workings. However, many diagnostic procedures also focus on samples of human tissue obtained by biopsies that carry risks like the possibility for infection. Experts predict that artificial intelligence would enable the next generation of radiology tools that are reliable and flawless to eliminate the need for tissue samples in certain cases. Consumer Health Applications One of the major potential benefits of AI is to help people stay healthy so they don't need a doctor, or at least not as often as they do. Using AI and the Internet of Medical Things (IoMT) also help people in consumer health applications. Technology systems and apps promote healthier human behaviors and help proactively manage a healthy lifestyle. This keeps the health and wellbeing of customers in control. In fact, AI enhances the potential of healthcare professionals to better understand the everyday patterns and needs of the people they care for and to have better feedback, support and guidance to stay healthy with that understanding. Conclusion With all the aforementioned details, it's obvious that AI can reduce the potential for human error in healthcare, and can make clinicians more effective. It has the potential to improve patient access and simplify health-care services procedures. The growing implementation of AI in the medical sector is part of the inevitable development. We already see huge advantages which outweigh the potential for disadvantages. Drop shipping is a process of order fulfillment where retailers do not house inventory explicitly but instead use wholesalers or manufacturers to distribute straight to the customers. This often comes with a range of benefits, including: Letting sellers to offer a wider range of goods, services and products. Reduced overhead cost. Inexpensive shipping. Makes faster delivery. The main difference between dropshipping and conventional shipping is that the retailer excludes the use of additional space which can save money that is generally used to rent a warehouse. In return, they purchase products from a wholesaler or manufacturer on a 'need' basis. Moreover, they keep a track of the shipping process. Let us dive deep into the details to look for the best ecommerce platform for any startup company who wishes to start with dropshipping business. WooCommerce WooCommerce is the world's most widely used ecommerce platform. It has a market penetration of more than 28 percent in overall ecommerce stores and this is undoubtedly due to the free and simple install plugin. With a single click, WooCommerce users can install it, making it an ideal choice for non-technical users too. Shopify The second name in the list of best ecommerce platforms is Shopify. Until now, Shopify has helped almost 600,000 e-commerce stores worldwide, including dropshipping companies Oberlo, a dropshipping plugin that works exclusively on Shopify, can especially help you find products to sell from Oberlo Verified suppliers, Oberlo suppliers, or AliExpress suppliers. Magento Suffice to say, up till now Magento is among the most successful ecommerce platforms to dropshipping. The user may choose between two versions (Magento 1 and Magento 2 – strongly recommended) and two editions (Magento Open Source – Free and Magento Commerce – Premium). OpenCart OpenCart is another free ecommerce platform you should consider for dropshipping. Magento and OpenCart share a lot of characteristics – free open source, efficient and more suited for tech savvies than the beginners. Nevertheless, as Magento's community is wider and far more robust than OpenCart's, and Magento has more themes and plugins, OpenCart is less famous. BigCommerce BigCommerce is a platform that hosts ecommerce. It also has a fair share of the market for ecommerce services, and claims to host more than 50,000 small business websites and 2,000 + enterprise firms. It is recognized for its simple user interface and quick setup process for ecommerce. Compared to Shopify, BigCommerce is more economical as a hosting ecommerce platform because it does not charge any transaction fees, and offers unlimited staff accounts, besides other prominent features. Artificial intelligence is transforming numerous fields of the healthcare industry. From robot-assisted surgeries to simulated nurse assistants or helping identify diseases, AI is providing improvements in general care, diagnosis and treatment. A staggering 20% of healthcare spend is wasted globally, but AI is capable of improving treatment results by 30-40 percent, reducing costs by as much as 50%. Here are some key uses of AI in health sector: Implementing Cloudflare is no doubt one of the simplest ways to optimize and add security to your website. Cloudflare is a CDN (Content Delivery Network), and Security Company aims to supercharge and secure online infrastructure for small to enterprise level businesses. It serves as a middle layer between your actual hosting provider and the user using the name of your domain, who browses your website. It caches your website's static resources, letting your website load faster and puts on less web hosting load. It's the CDN that's in the center of your domain name and web host. It is Free One of Cloudflare’s significant benefits is the free CDN. Integration is easy and does not change the image URL or show URLs like cdn.domain.com. Cloudflare is absolutely free to start, while other CDN services cost money. It Offers Easy Activation You do not need to do any code changes, or install any software. Just set up an account and choose which domains you would like to secure. You'll experience superior performance of the website in as little as five minutes. It Improves Performance As the traffic on the website is filtered only valid traffic flows. Therefore, the hosting resources will be used by the actual customers with better speed. In addition, Cloudflare caches the static content and supports it by requesting it from the host each time. So, to serve the content the host needs less processing. It Provides Accurate Site Analytics Google Analytics or any other analytics you will use in HTML are based on the fact that users have JavaScript enabled and the page loads to the point where the tracking code is accessible. With Cloudflare, analytics are much more precise than JavaScript-based stats as they catch all of the traffic stats that JavaScript may lose due to blocked JavaScript content or page not loaded fully. It Saves Hosting Bandwidth The entire traffic does not head to host. So, one can save on the bandwidth of spammers and hackers that you would otherwise waste. In addition, the static content delivered as cached from Cloudflare would still be saved on the hosting bandwidth. It Offers Image Optimization If you have multiple images on your website then Cloudflare Polish may dynamically adjust them for quick loading to a smaller size. You can choose either lossless or lossy compress. Polish supports WebP compression as well and is accessible from the PRO package. Additionally, you should link to this for learning how to compress images for WordPress, Joomla or other website platforms. It Blocks DoS and DDoS DDoS and DoS are blocked by Cloudflare. DDoS is an attack on the website that sends out too many automated requests from various locations to render it down. If the hacker knows your IP address, Cloudflare can't fully protect the server from DDoS since the attacker targets IP that explicitly bypasses the Cloudflare. The workaround would be to change the IP address and only use the new IP address in Cloudflare. If a platform receives too many DDoS attacks, then using Cloudflare makes sense. It Offers Security Not only is it improving your website hosting experience, but you are accessing a growing international user community. An attack on any user is immediately identified and consequently blocked for the entire community. Cloudflare helps you protect against numerous threats, be it cross-site scripting, spam comment, SQL injection, excessive bot crawling, harvester emails, etc. It will deter most attacks automatically without the complicated configurations needed for other security plugins and tools. With an almost endless number of websites nowadays, getting good traffic is extremely difficult unless you use suitable SEO tools. There are many such tools available on the market, but people sometimes feel confused when it comes to finding the most appropriate solution to their needs. It can be hard to master SEO optimization, particularly if you're just starting out. Optimization of search engines can be difficult, especially given the ever-changing algorithms of search engines. With the right set of SEO optimization tools, despite the frequent algorithm updates, you will be able to increase your site traffic. Why do we need SEO tools? When you implement the right SEO techniques, the website will be able to rank high in searches, gaining higher visibility and more targeted traffic—a higher ranking contributes directly to more visitors. These useful tools will help you boost your online presence, achieve a higher ROI, and gain more revenue in the long run. You want to produce quality content focused on high rating keywords, but it would require time-consuming and extensive work to identify them. When it comes to keyword research, using the right SEO tools can save you a lot of valuable time. They can also help you optimize your content, so you can gain credibility and authority on the web. In fact, SEO tools help you to research the competitors closely to ensure you're still one step ahead of them. We have compiled the best SEO tools to make things easier for you. Ahrefs: SEO Keyword Tool Ahrefs is among the most popular web SEO tools. After Google, it is the second-largest crawler of websites. Ahref's Site Audit feature is known to be the best SEO analytics tool today. It lets you highlight the areas of your website that require changes and upgrades. It amazingly helps you achieve higher ranking in search engines. You can also use Ahrefs to sneak into the backlinks of your competitor. It will give you a starting point for launching your own brand. Marketers use Ahrefs to identify the content that is most relevant to within a specific niche. Google Search Console Google Search Console (GSC) offers novice webmasters an outstanding way to get started with SEO. And if you're not headstrong at SEO, whatever the size of your web or blog, the first port of call will be Google's laudable Search Console (formerly Webmaster Central) and the countless user-friendly tools under its hood. The tool suite provides you with valuable information about your site at a glimpse: it will assess the efficiency of your site and detect any potential problems to configure (such as harmful spam links). It helps ensure that your site is Google-friendly and track the indexing of your site by Google. If your platform has incurred a penalty, you may also record spam and seek reconsideration. Furthermore, if you don't consistently refer to their Webmaster Guidelines, well, you've just got to excuse yourself if you go wrong. Search Console is continuously being updated, and new updates are on the way, such as new URL inspection tool or new sitemaps reporting. SEMrush: SEO Toolkit The SEO community enjoyed using the SEO tools of SEMRush marketing. SEMrush is fan’s favorite and experts, who have admired it for the impressive features. You can quickly review the ranks, ranking improvements and potential opportunities for improved ranking captures. The Domain Vs Domain feature offers you an in-depth overview that helps you to equate your domain with competitors. The On-Page SEO Checker tool helps you to monitor your rankings effectively, and provide recommendations about how to boost the performance of your website. Moz Pro: SEO Software Moz Pro is a SEO tool kit that focuses on helping you improve traffic, rankings and visibility throughout search engine results. Key tools include the ability to use the Moz Pro spider to audit your own site, which should highlight potential problems and recommend actionable insights. There is also the ability to track the rankings of your site over hundreds or even thousands of keywords per site. There's even a keyword research tool to help decide which keywords and keyword variations are better for targeting and there's also a backlink analysis tool that combines a variety of metrics like anchor text in links as well as estimated domain authority. Pricing for Moz Pro starts at $99 a month with the Premium package including the basic tools. The Medium package provides a wider variety of features for $179 a month, plus there is a free trial. If you don't sign up with Moz Pro, there are a variety of free tools available. There is also a huge community of support willing to offer assistance, advice and guidance around the spectrum of search marketing issues. KWFinder: SEO Keyword Tool An SEO keyword tool such as KWFinder lets you find long-tail keywords that have lower competition levels. The professionals use this SEO tool to find the best keywords and run analysis on backlinks and SERP (Search Engine Results Page). Their Rank Tracking tool helps you to quickly determine your ranking while measuring one key metric for your improvement. And, if that's not enough, you'll get a lot of new ideas for keywords to help you rank the site even higher. Ubersuggest: Keyword Tracking Tool Created by Neil Patel, it is a keyword-finding tool that lets you find keywords and the search intent behind them by showing them the top SERP ranks. From short to long-tail phrases, with hundreds of recommendations from this free fantastic keyword tool, you can find the best keywords to use on your website. The keyword volume, competitiveness, CPC, and seasonal trends are the metrics that they include in their report. The tool will help PPC teams decide whether a keyword is worth promoting and how competitive it is for both organic, SEO and paid. BuzzSumo BuzzSumo helps you analyze which category of content works best for any topic and breaks down performance across blogs, keywords, etc. through various metrics. You begin by entering your keyword in the search box, and then find out what content is best for it. You will also find key influencers to support your content and you can use email outreach to pitch to them. You just need to enter the topic you are working on to find a high-performing headline. It'll send you a rundown of any topic's most popular titles, sorted by the number of social shares. Alerts can be created with any keyword related to your brand, which will keep you on top of new and trending content. E-commerce has grown exponentially in the past few years and, according to estimates, the phenomenon will continue over the next decade. However, for an e-commerce business to prosper in this growing industry, the store needs to be functional and aesthetically pleasing. What is Shopify great for? Shopify is ideal for those stores offering products or services that need a minimum level of configuration. By adding an advanced homepage section of Shopify as per your business requirement, you can sell a particular product or a handful of products. Ultimately, it will result in increasing your ROI and improving your business revenue. Shopify is definitely an impressive e-commerce platform for enterprises attempting to create an online store. Easy to Set up and Use If you're not tech-savvy it may be daunting to begin with an e-commerce platform. Through a wide range of services, Shopify completely eliminates the need for technological skills. The platform provides a user-friendly user-interface and an intuitive admin interface. When you go through the tutorials on their web site, it will only take minutes to set up your store. With the variety of templates available, a distinctive and eye-catching store is easy to set up. Secure & Reliable You will be dealing with confidential customer information, including credit card numbers, and impatient consumers if you have an ecommerce store. This means that your website must be quick, secure and online at all times. One of the major benefits of a host solution is its reliability. Shopify will take good care of all website maintenance and upgrades to keep your store and shopping cart still accessible and make sure that pages are loaded quickly. SSL certificates can be allowed to encrypt all data in your store and transfer it through a secure connection, while Shopify takes care of PCI enforcement (required when dealing with credit cards). Easy to Install Apps To thrive as an online business, it has to build a dedicated customer base and be readily available. Now that most users use mobile devices, mobile app is a perfect way to improve accessibility, On Shopify, there are applications that help you to enhance customer service and manage the shop using your mobile phone. You can edit and modify products at any time, and track orders anywhere. Each application incorporates innovative features that enhance customer experience while making management seamless. Customer Care Customer service can be claimed as one of the main reasons customers value Shopify. If you plan to develop and maintain the store entirely by yourself (with anything like WordPress and WooCommerce) and you don’t have anyone to run to when something goes wrong. The developers these days charge a heavy fee for consultation while online forums remain unresponsive. Shopify offers a large database of FAQ, email & chat support, along with phone support, most notably on the other hand with a professional representative. If you're focused on running your ecommerce store, this safety net is worth the Shopify subscription price alone to have someone at your back with answers. So, Shopify particularly shines on this point. SEO-Powered Being a versatile platform, Shopify also has the marketing edge. The basic version supports SEO as well as advanced e-commerce analytics. SEO is important for the ranking of your web-store and it makes your product accessible to the shoppers looking for their required products. Shopify provides you the opportunity to design landing page for any campaign which makes Shopify stand out among the competitors. It supports SEO variables such as custom tags for the title and meta tags. In addition, it provides other marketing tools including custom gift cards, discount coupons, store information, personalized email marketing and more. Abandoned Cart Recovery What happens if a visitor puts a product in their shopping cart in your store but leaves without purchasing it? More than two thirds of potential customers would do so, according to statistics. Shopify presents an abandoned checkout cart recovery service which tracks and emails these prospective buyers instantly to encourage them to complete their purchase, a simple way to potentially generate more sales. Mobile Responsive The majority of Internet users use mobile devices to access the internet. As such, a mobile friendly website is a key consideration for effective e-commerce. When a website is not mobile-friendly, the customer experience would be poor for users on mobile devices, leading to the loss of potential customers. The Shopify platform has been built in this regard with a mobile responsiveness in mind. They also frequently update features to ensure a satisfying shopping experience for the customers. Highly Customizable The Shopify Theme Store has 160 themes to choose from (free and paid), all of which are mobile friendly. Through editing the code, each theme is fully customizable. So, it's easy to create a wonderful and exclusive online store that matches your brand identity! Wrapping Up Without any doubt, Shopify can be considered as one of the biggest and most successful e-commerce platforms. And it was, very rightly, able to build customer trust in record time. It is among the best platforms to start up in the e-commerce marketplace for small- and medium-sized business owners. The Shopify interface has several features to make the store user-friendly and easy to manage, enabling you to focus solely on selling. Shopify is a great platform to start your business anytime you want without any understanding of programming, which makes it one of the best platforms for e-commerce. Plugins let you add new features and expand your business. It's much easier to have a thriving online store when you are using the right tools. In this blog, we will share the best WooCommerce plugins that are used and loved by hundreds of effective ecommerce store owners. WooCommerce is one of WordPress's most common ecommerce plugins that you can use to build an online store. The plugin includes many of the necessary features to ease the process of creating an ecommerce website. One of plugin's key benefits is that you don't need to have vast technological expertise to handle them. Installing and configuring a plugin for WooCommerce is an easy task you can do on your own. Now it's incredibly important to choose the best plugin for your store, because badly coded plugins will cause trouble on your website. Below, we have provided you with a comprehensive list of the best WooCommerce plugins you can add to your online store. 1. OptinMonster OptinMonster is one of the best WooCommerce plugins available on the market, and the most powerful lead generation software. OptinMonster comes with highly advanced features like the Exit-intent technology, its iconic feature. It is an advanced behavioral technology that tracks the web visitors’ activity, which prompts them with a targeted campaign at the particular time when they are about to leave the website. This feature can be used to reduce cart abandonment and improve sales in your WooCommerce store. 2. Yoast WooCommerce SEO Plugin You need to focus on the SEO of your site if you want your website to be found in search results. If you are already using the famous Yoast SEO plugin, you might also want to check out WooCommerce SEO, the "glue" which holds WooCommerce and your SEO plugin together. This marketing tool not only optimizes the website such as the free Yoast SEO plugin, but also takes it a step further and optimizes it for WooCommerce itself. This gives the marketing strategies the push necessary to take the competition forward. You can share products as Rich Pins on Pinterest for better visibility and sharing of experiences. Exclude irrelevant details about the sitemap of your shop which may interfere with proper indexing and search rankings, and a lot more. If you're planning to maximize your SEO initiatives, consider investing in this WooCommerce SEO plugin. 3. WooRewards WooRewards plugin allows you to make an online store reward system. You can give your customers more incentive to make transactions with this reward system while making them more loyal to your brand. This is how it works: you pick how much money a customer wants to spend on earning points, how many points a customer requires to make a coupon, and how much value each coupon has. Your buyers will then get updates that provide them with all the information they need to begin using the new system of rewards. There is even a pro version which offers additional features, such as visualization of points and a loyalty level system. 4. Beeketing for WooCommerce Beeketing plugin for WooCommerce brings growing marketing and sales approaches into one package, giving WooCommerce business owners a full marketing automation suite. It is developed by Beeketing-a forum for ecommerce websites for marketing automation. There is a lot of work involved in e-commerce marketing, so we like plugins that allow you to manage a number of tasks. For example, beeketing for WooCommerce is an all-in-one marketing platform which can automate product purchases, add stock indicators, provide discounts, optimize your web store, and more. The plugin is free but, for extra features, you can purchase extensions. You will see a list of various apps within the plugin, each with a distinctive collection of features helping to raise conversion levels in the selling funnel at different stages. 5. Checkout Field Editor To ensure a decent conversion rate your checkout page is extremely important. Therefore, the fields you're showing on the checkout page will comply with the customer expectations. You can add, remove and rearrange fields on your checkout tab, using this plugin. The extension provides several fields including text input, checkbox, date picker, drop-down etc. When it is important for your store strategy, you can even shift the position of the core WooCommerce fields. 6. YITH WooCommerce Quick View YITH WooCommerce Quick View lets you create a quick view option to products from WooCommerce. It is among the best plugins in WooCommerce to boost sales. A quick view helps the customers to see images of a product with a click or a mouse hover instantly. This feature saves a lot of time of your customers by not having to load a new page for each product that heightens their interest. It improves customer engagement and helps improve sales at your store. 7. YITH WooCommerce Wishlist YITH WooCommerce Wishlist plugin enables you to save products to the wishlist. They can make the order later using the wish list or share their wish list with friends and family. This is a great addition to your online store as people make their shopping lists and buy gifts during busy holiday seasons. 8. WooCommerce Smart Orders This basic plugin will significantly improve the buying process on your WooCommerce site. As we know, the WooCommerce plugin's default order mechanism is very simple, but a few significant, modern requirements are lacking. This plugin incorporates incredible features such as the ability to allow or disable additional columns, the reorder option on the order page, the potential to merge more than one order, the personalized order status, and more. 9. Mailchimp for WooCommerce If you are the owner of an e-commerce store using Mailchimp, you will want to make absolutely sure that you use Mailchimp for WooCommerce. For your Mailchimp account, you can synchronize the purchasing details of your WooCommerce customer and use it to deliver targeted campaigns, irrespective of how they buy from your online store or storefront. Besides that, you can even send follow-up emails after purchase, suggest products, and even retrieve abandoned carts emails. 10. Custom Notifications Whenever there is a new release or you want to announce something important, a good notification bar will make the process even simpler for all your visitors to make sure the announcement is noticeable. Custom Notifications has been one of the best available notification bar plugins. It comes with a lot of great settings to make sure you can set up the notification according to the requirement. You can set the notification bar color scheme to seamlessly blend with your theme. You're going to have the settings to display the bar or hide it depending on a variety of different parameters. For instance, you can add different goals to your bar as well as use this bar as in the email opt-in feature if you prefer. The plugin is a completely responsive interface that you can open up to 18 social media sites and more with those bars you will create. Machines are getting smarter day by day. They can automatically find repeated patterns with basic data observations, and make informed decisions without any human interference. Machine learning's exponential growth is largely driven by various open-source tools which make it much easier for Python developers to familiarize themselves with this language and adapt accordingly. For a long while now, Python has become a charmer to data scientists. In the early years, people used to execute Machine Learning activities by coding all the algorithms and mathematical and statistical method manually. This made the process slow, frustrating and time consuming. But in the modern days, different python libraries, frameworks, and modules have made it very simple and efficient compared to the older days. Today, Python is one of the most successful programming languages for this role and it has surpassed much of the industry's languages, one explanation is its extensive collection of libraries. Numpy Python owns a wide collection of data types and data structures. But nevertheless, it wasn’t designed for Machine Learning per say. Numpy is a library that handles data, particularly one that helps us to manage large multidimensional arrays along with a huge collection of mathematical operations. Numpy is not only a library known for its multidimensional data processing capabilities. It is also recognized for its execution speed and ability to vectorise. It offers the functionality of MATLAB style and thus needs some preparation before you can get confident. It is also a core dependence for other commonly used libraries, such as pandas, matplotlib, etc. Tensor Flow Python TensorFlow is an end-to-end python machine learning library to run numerical high-end computations. TensorFlow can accommodate deep image recognition neural networks, handwritten digit identification, recurrent neural networks, NLP (Natural Language Processing), term embedding and PDE (Partial Differential Equation). TensorFlow Python offers excellent architecture support to allow fast computation deployments over a wide range of platforms, such as desktops, servers and mobile devices. Abstraction is TensorFlow Python's main appeal towards machine learning and AI projects. This feature allows developers to focus on the application's comprehensive rationale rather than dealing with the tedious details of implementation algorithms. With such a library, python developers can now leverage AI and ML efficiently to create unique, responsive applications that respond to user inputs including facial or voice speech. Theano Theano is another fantastic computational framework for computing multidimensional arrays that comes in handy. Theano integrates closely with Numpy, which can handle data-intensive computations relative to a typical CPU. While the library has similarities with Tensorflow, in terms of fitting into production environments, leaves much to be desired. Theano is a popular python library used to efficiently describe, evaluate and optimize mathematical expressions concerning multi-dimensional arrays. It is done by optimizing CPU and GPU utilization. It is widely used to identify and detect different types of errors for unit-testing and self-verification. Theano is a very multifunctional library that has long been used in large-scale computationally intensive scientific projects but is easy and open enough for people to use it for their own projects. Keras Python Keras is a leading open-source Python library written to build neural networks and projects of machine learning. It can run on Deeplearning4j, MXNet, Microsoft Cognitive Toolkit (CNTK), TensorFlow or Theano. It provides nearly all standalone modules including optimizers, neural layers, functions for activation, schemes for initialization, cost functions, and regularization schemes. It makes adding new modules quick much like adding new functions and classes. Seeing that the model is already specified in the code, you do not need to provide separate config files for the model. Keras makes designing and developing a neural network easy for beginners in machine learning. Keras Python also addresses convolution neural networks. It requires normalization algorithms, optimizer layers, and activation layers. Rather than being an end-to-end Python machine learning library, Keras works as a user-friendly, extensible interface that improves modularity and total expressiveness. Pandas Pandas is an open-source Python package offering high-performance, easy-to-use data models and data analysis tools for the Python programming for the labeled data. Pandas stands for Python Data Analysis Library. Pandas is a handy tool for munging or wrangling data. This is programmed to manipulate, read, compile, and visualize data quickly and efficiently. Pandas take data into a CSV or TSV file or SQL database and create a Python object called a data frame with rows and columns. The data framework, say Excel or SPSS, is very similar to a table in statistical software. SciPy Developed on top of NumPy, the SciPy library is a set of subpackages that help to solve the simplest statistical analysis-related problems. The SciPy library is used to process the array elements defined using the NumPy library, thus it is often used to compute mathematical equations that cannot be achieved using NumPy. Scipy works alongside NumPy arrays to offer a framework that delivers numerous mathematical approaches such as numerical integration and optimization. It has a sub-package collection which can be used for vector quantization, Fourier transformation, integration, interpolation, etc. Scipy presents a complete stack of Linear Algebra functions used for more complex computations such as clustering using the k-means algorithm, and so on. Moreover, it supports signal processing, data structures and numerical algorithms, creating sparse matrices, etc. If you're relatively new to the search marketing world, you might have heard in marketing meetings the word "SEO content" being tossed around. Thousands of people search for content like yours every day. You can help them find you by becoming an SEO content expert. 80% of traffic on a website begins with a search query, according to HubSpot. This is why optimization of the search engine (SEO) for your content has become so essential. Because when you write content for the right people in the correct way, your content will climb higher on search engines. So, what is Content SEO? Content SEO refers to producing content that makes search engines rank the web pages higher. Content SEO is essential as your website is viewed by search engines such as Google, and the words you use on your blog decide whether or not your content can appear on their results pages. Therefore, let us guide you with content SEO basics. Let’s get started! 1. Do Keyword Research First Find out which keywords and phrases people are searching for (and also what you can be good at), and make a chart for yourself. Keep record of how many times you use the keywords in your content, and use the appropriate tools to determine where you rank with your target keywords. Without any second thoughts, our favorite is SEMrush. 2. Properly Place Keywords Although it is always a smart idea to use your target keyword in the blog, peppering the copy with forced keywords won't help push the dial much. Use your keyword in the title, in the first 300 words, and then in the first H1 or H2. Also, having the keyword in your copy will never be difficult. Ideally, the keyword in your writing should feel natural. 3. Emphasize on Readability SEO content shooting to the top of SERPs has a few things to do with it, including this major feature: it's amazingly readable. Once your audience clicks on your link, they want to linger and read every single element on the page. And that makes the website look amazing for Google as the audience stay and read it. Readability leads to longer stay times with a variety of attributes added in: • Clarity • Organization • Logic • Simplicity Your content has to express all types of information in a comprehensible manner to be readable. And, as more people understand your content, more people will stay longer which will boost your rankings in Google. 4. Consider Your Audience Google is not a marketing agency. You have to focus on what the target customers want. When you realize what they want, then you will create content that pulls them in. Listening to your target customer's input, it informs the content you create to draw more of them. If you're writing, you can always strive to give your readers some sort of interest. 5. Invest in Visuals According to research, blogs featuring relevant images gain 94 per cent more views than articles without images. That's because, simply, we're designed to note and respond to images more than content. Nevertheless, the impact of integrating well-designed, high-quality images into the content, is much greater than putting in a few irrelevant, overused stock images. The content with the right images will look more organized, professional and trustworthy, and it's a great idea to invest in them for better SEO. 6. Don’t Miss Out Linking As a writer, you are not expected to be able to migrate a site or enable HTTPS across a whole domain. Yet understanding a basic SEO linking will make you a better SEO writer. So first of all, it will help you build a strategy by understanding how Google crawls pages and hands out the link authority. After all, content writing is not just about writing a single blog post — it's about writing a lot of them (and linking them up). Also, if you have a fair idea of how your content is structured, you will help make it a little more effective— which ensures that a backlink to one of your posts will give the maximum benefit to your site. Let your Content be on Top Today, content or blog is undoubtedly the most effective digital marketing tool. Content SEO is the most competitive and by far the most successful way to drive sustainable traffic to your website. These steps can help you create credible and competitive SEO content over time and you will be able to rank higher on google or any other search engines. What Is Xamarin? Xamarin is a development platform that lets you write cross-platform, but native, iOS, Android, and Windows Phone apps in C #and.NET. Xamarin includes the Native Android and iOS APIs with C #bindings. This provides you the ability to use any of the native user interface, notifications, images, animations, and other features of the Android and iOS phone— everything using C#. Each new release of Android and iOS can be paired with Xamarin, with a new release that includes bindings for their new APIs. Xamarin's.NET port provides functionality such as data types, generics, delegates, language-integrated query (LINQ), sequential programming patterns, garbage collection with a subset of Windows Communication Foundation (WCF). Libraries are operated with a linger to have only those components that are referenced. Pros of Xamarin To understand what makes Xamarin so prominent, and why a business should opt for it rather than separately developing native mobile applications, let's take a closer look at the notable features and key business benefits of Xamarin. Compatible Code Xamarin is a development platform that helps you create 60-95% of reusable code. That is why it is often referred to as “write once, use everywhere”. A single codebase can run on a number of native performance platforms, which may require minimal changes only. Comes without limits One of Xamarin's smartest features is that it isn't attempting to impose commonality where there's none. Android and iOS each have UI and SDK features that are distinct from the look and feel of each platform. Such features are central to iOS apps that feel like iOS and Android apps feeling like Android. Some cross-platform application development tools attempt to conceal the uniqueness of the platform which results in apps feeling unfamiliar to the platform they are running on. Xamarin is doing exactly the same. Xamarin focuses on the unique features of each platform. Besides the standard.NET classes, Xamarin offersiOS-specific.NET classes and Android-specific.NET classes, each of which exposes their respective platform's specific functionality. Incorporating the core. .NET classes with the platform-specific classes allows applications to share core logic in both iOS and Android, thus taking advantage of the unique features of each platform. Native Look-and-Feel When developing a cross-platform solution, you don't have to compromise user experience, since Xamarin offers the look-and-feel equivalent to native applications. The use of platform-specific elements and technologies accessible in C #and Visual Studio makes the nativity possible: Android and Xamarin.iOS have the full access to Android and iOS SDKs for.NET developers Essentials library gives access to central overlapping native APIs Forms presents a user interface (UI) toolkit for all mobile platforms, allowing you to reap the benefits of all the unique components in one place and create a single platform-specific interface solution. Saves Time and Expenses Because everything is written in C# and within the.NET framework, different teams are not required for working on the app. Development expenses and maintenance costs are minimized with a single team. It is especially useful for companies with limited human and hardware resources. In addition, the development, testing and deployment processes are substantially simplified when performed by a single team and using a single technological stack which also provides minimal market time. Microsoft’s Technical Support Xamarin assures reliability, continuous technological assistance and fast problem solving as it is supported by Microsoft— one of the leading global tech software companies. Moreover, on the official Microsoft Learn platform, Microsoft offers access to robust educational opportunities, including self-paced Xamarin courses and extensive tech documents. Developers are therefore not working in a vacuum and can get support while developing their skills. Fewer Bugs The primary reason Xamarin tends to cause fewer bugs is the same reason that it offers quicker time-to-market: less code is written. The less code we write, the fewer bugs are expected. Xamarin also eliminates errors by giving the possibility of wider test coverage. Any provided project has a finite amount of test time. We will write a single, more detailed series of tests that verify the code on all systems rather than wasting more time writing two sets of essentially redundant tests. It also has the capability to minimize bugs by providing the opportunity for greater test coverage. Any given project has a defined or limited amount of time given for testing. Instead of spending that time writing two sets of largely duplicated tests, we can write a single, more detailed set of tests validating the code on both platforms. With Xamarin the whole team will focus solely on working with. NET / C#. This enables the skills of each team member to develop more thoroughly and allows the team as a whole to properly support and inspect one another. Future Readiness By using Xamarin to build our iOS / Android applications, we're able to get our apps ready to support Windows Phone without spending a single second in Windows Phone development. All the shared logic that we create for our iOS / Android app will be completely embraced by Windows Phone as long as we show that we want that to be the case when we first create the project. It allows us to build our app without pouring any effort into Windows Phone development. Nevertheless, should a Windows Phone opportunity arise, all we have to do is build the Windows Phone UI, and instead of just two, our app now supports three smartphone platforms. Content is the most element in the domain of digital marketing. Give your content a thorough analysis, before you hit the “publish” button to ensure it meets the correct writing standards. Here are six principles of great content: Statcounter research states that, ‘As of December 2019, Chrome had 69% of the world's web browser market, compared to 4.6 for Edge and 3.6% for Internet Explorer.’ Microsoft has released an updated ‘Edge’ browser, released on January 15, which is actually the tech giant’s third attempt at building a browser that offers a better browsing experience while opting the strategy, ‘if you can’t beat them, join them.’ The first attempt, Internet Explorer, was launched in 1995 and ultimately became the most successful browser in the world. The company's second browser, Edge, launched in July 2015, was Microsoft's attempt to replace Internet Explorer and regain browser supremacy. That version of Edge did not work. It was only available for Windows 10, was unreliable, overloaded with functionality that few users desired, and severely lacked items which users actually wanted. The third and the most recent attempt is, ‘Microsoft New Edge’ in which, instead of creating the proprietary code browser, Microsoft opted to use open-source Chromium source code to build the new Edge, which was originally developed by Google and is now underpinning Google Chrome and other browsers. Seasoned Chrome users will quickly feel comfortable with it — and it also allows extensions to be installed straight from Chrome's own web store. Unlike the initial Edge browser, the Chromium-based Edge works with Windows 7, Windows 8.1 and macOS. We have handpicked the minute differences between the two, to help you understand them better. User Interface In the new Edge, the user interface is quite similar to what you'd expect while using Chrome. They both have rounded corners and the effects of shadow falling. As for the bookmarks bar, both Chrome and Edge just display the bars on new tabs. Edge offers three options for you to choose from for your new tab. The Centered theme displays your most often visited pages, Inspirational presents a different picture daily, and Informational presents you with a personalized news feed. Chrome has only one focused theme option. Speed Edge appears to be faster in several tests, by just using 70-80% of the RAM which Chrome makes use of. So, in case your system doesn’t have a huge amount of RAM, Edge can offer you smoother and faster browsing. Edge also taxes less on the computer, making freeze-ups less regular. Extensions Both Edge and Chrome provide access to more-functional extensions. Since both are designed on Chromium, most of the Google Chrome Store extensions function on Edge too. You must click on the three dots to use them, and choose Extensions. Then move the slider to On, next to "allow extensions from other stores." In the Microsoft Store, there are plugins specifically designed to work with Edge, but going out of the browser seems like an unnecessary step to add this, while you can do it all in one place with Google's extensions. Syncing While Google Chrome lets you sync your browser history and extensions between device-to-device, Microsoft Edge doesn't. And if you think it's important that your browsers work the same on various devices, Chrome's a better choice. Apps Using Microsoft Edge's Progressive Web App (PWA) support, you can convert almost any website into a standalone app. Creating a PWA provides you a desktop shortcut that connects to the site which you can see in a browser without the address bar and other features. This feature is not available on Chrome. Collections Collections is something which sets Edge ahead of Chrome for many of us. Collections allow the user to accumulate information from a number of sources and to bring it in one place to refer to again. It is useful in situations like planning trips, writing research papers, or comparison shopping. Collections are not live on the new version at the time of this writing, but you can use it by installing the Canary version. Immersive Reading One amazing feature of Microsoft Edge is that it reads to you on your mobile as well as your desktop screens. The new Microsoft Edge reads on both your desktop and your mobile phone. To do so, Chrome needs an extension to the desktop and mobile versions. More languages and voices can also be downloaded in your Windows Settings. Edge has an immersive reading experience which eliminates all unnecessary distractions from the page, leaving only the text and other relevant content. You can also adjust background color. Chrome once had a reader feature, but now you have to install a plugin in order to enjoy both read aloud and reader view. Privacy Edge provides you three different degrees of tracking security: Basic, Balanced and Strict. Balanced is the standard, allowing you to have some customization that you won't get in Strict mode. In Basic, you will get a lot of customization but less privacy. For Strict mode, certain websites may not be working properly. It is quite simple to find out which trackers are blocked on the websites you visit on your Microsoft Edge browser. You can: Click on the lock icon (present on the URL) Click Trackers on the bottom of the menu. Here, you will see the list! Chrome doesn’t offer this. In Microsoft Edge, you can configure which site-by-site permissions you wish to offer. In Chrome, however, you can either block or allow for all the sites. Like any other browser, Edge and Chrome both have private browsing tabs. You'll see it listed as InPrivate on the Edge browser while Chrome refers to it as an Incognito tab. Such browser windows do not save any activity when it is used for internet browsing. Takeaway Overall, Edge enjoys an edge over Chrome in that running it requires fewer resources. Also, if you've previously sworn off Microsoft browsers, it may be worth a try. Human beings have fought against infectious diseases throughout history. Although we have developed several effective medicines, new viruses continue to threaten us. The COVID-19 pandemic has created a sense of urgency to improve existing approaches to infectious diseases’ prevention and treatment. Fortunately, the AI and data science approaches available today can help us fight infectious diseases in a better way. The novel coronavirus has spread from its epicenter in China to infect 414,179 people and has caused no less than 18,440 deaths in at least 160 countries over a three-month period from January 2020 to date. According to the Report on the Situation of the World Health Organization (WHO), these estimates are as of 25 March. Accompanying the horrific loss of life caused by the outbreak is the impact on the world economy which has reeled from the pandemic's consequences. As research specifics unfold, the data set is rising exponentially, beyond the capacity of human intelligence to handle the pandemic. Artificial Intelligence (AI) is specialized in detecting patterns from big data, and this article will help us understand how it has become one of the ace players of humanity in coping with this crisis. Using China as a particular example-study, the success of China with AI as a crisis management tool shows its effectiveness, and justifies the financial commitment that technology has had to develop in the past few years. HOW CAN AI COMBAT PANDEMIC? Developments in AI applications like natural language processing, speech recognition, data analytics, machine learning, deep learning and others like chatbots and facial recognition have been used not only for diagnosis, but also for contact tracing and development of vaccines. AI has certainly helped control the COVID-19 pandemic and succeeded mitigate the worst effects. AI has been implemented so far in a variety of ways and the following are only some of the cases in which the technology has been used as a tool to solve the pandemic: Predicting an Epidemic AI algorithms will help with the search through news reports and online content from around the globe, even before it reaches epidemic proportions, helping experts identify anomalies. The corona outbreak itself is a perfect example of AI being applied by researchers to analyze flight traveler data to determine where the novel coronavirus would occur next. Successful implementation of predictive models will be a major step forward in the struggle to eradicate some of the most infectious diseases from the world. Big data analytics can help decentralize the process and allow timely analysis of widespread data sets produced in real-time by the Internet of Things (IoT) and mobile devices. Immediate Diagnosis AI Instant diagnosis ensures that response measures like quarantine can be easily implemented to prevent further spread of the infection. An obstacle to rapid diagnosis is the relative lack of clinical expertise due to the sheer number of cases required to interpret the diagnostic results. In the COVID-19 crisis, AI has improved its diagnostic time through technologies such as that built by LinkingMed, a Beijing-based oncology data platform and medical data analysis company. Pneumonia, a common complication of COVID-19 infection, can now be diagnosed with accuracy as high as 92 percent and a recall rate of 97 percent on test data sets from an analysis of a CT scan in less than sixty seconds. An open-source AI model made this possible by analyzing CT images and not only did it identify lesions but also measured in terms of quantity, volume and proportion. This platform, novel in China, was driven by Paddle Paddle, an open-source deep learning platform to Baidu. Virtual Healthcare Bots The number of COVID-19 cases has demonstrated that they will overwhelm healthcare systems and response measures. AI has leveraged its natural language processing capability to develop a multi-lingual virtual healthcare agent that can address COVID-19-related questions, offer accurate information and specific guidelines, prescribe safety strategies, track and control symptoms, and advise individuals about whether they require medical testing or self-isolation. AI Face Recognition and Fever Detection Thermal cameras have been used for detection of people with fever for some time now. The technical downside is the need for a human operator. Cameras with multi-sensory AI-based technology have already been used in airports, hospitals, nursing homes, etc. The technology recognizes people with fever automatically and records their movements, identifies their faces and detects whether the person wears a face mask. As AI rapidly becomes the staple, health care is certainly a field where it can play a significant role in keeping us healthy and safe. And AI Healthcare will continue to provide solutions to any of the arising epidemic. Companies of all sizes endorse virtualization as a means of cutting IT expenses, improving security and increasing operational efficiency. Even while people are already informed of the benefits, when it comes to the various types of virtualization, others are still in the dark. While virtualization has its origins since the early 1960s, it gained enormous popularity between 2003-2010. It contributes to the evolution of the latest technologies trend, such as the cloud computing data centers. Moreover, virtualization technology has been responsible to a certain extent for planting the seeds for cloud technology. Here are some prominent benefits of virtualization: Flexible and efficient resource allocation. Pay per IT infrastructure use on demand. Improve development productivity. Reduce IT infrastructure costs. Allow multiple operating system processes. Fast scalability and remote access. Disaster recovery management Now, we'll show you some of the most popular types of virtualization and how they can be a game-changer for your business. Application virtualization This is a process where applications such as laptops, smartphones, and tablets are virtualized and delivered from a server to the end user's device. So instead of logging into their workplace computers, users will be able to access the application directly from their device, provided there is an Internet connection. This is especially popular with businesses that need on-the-go use of their applications. A remote application must run on a server, and some type of remote display protocol is used by the client to connect back to the client machine. Knowing that a vast number of system administrators and users have remote running experience, setting up remote displays for applications can be reasonably straightforward. You may run one copy of the application on the server with a streaming application, and then have access to other client desktops, and run the streaming application locally. The update process becomes simpler while streaming the application, as you only set up another streaming application with the latest edition and have the end users refer to the application's new version. Server Virtualization Virtualization of the server allows multiple virtual machines to function on one physical server. The virtual servers share the physical server resources, which contributes to optimal utilization of the resources of the physical servers. The resources the virtual machines share are CPU, storage, memory, and networking. All these tools are made available to the virtual machines via the physical hypervisor server. The hypervisor is the physical box operating system and software. The virtual machine runs on the same box, independent of other virtual machines. Virtual machines can have differing modes of operation and are separated from one another. The server virtualization is a means to combine applications that used to operate on separate physical servers, and now functions on the same physical server defined by virtual machines with the hypervisor software. Desktop Virtualization Desktop virtualization helps the operating environment of the users to be stored centrally in the data center on a server. It allows the user to access their desktop directly from different machines from any location. Those who use specific operating systems apart from Windows Server require a virtual desktop. Key benefits of desktop virtualization are device mobility, functionality, updates and patches and simple software installation management. Storage Virtualization The process of grouping physical storage using software to represent what appears to be a single storage unit in a virtual environment is Storage Virtualization. Variables can be generated between storage virtualization and standard virtual machines, as both take and abstract access to physical hardware and resources. A traditional virtual machine and a virtual storage are different from each other. The virtual machine is a series of files, while on the storage controller, which is created using software, virtual storage usually runs in memory. For several years, a form of virtualization of storage has been implemented into the storage features. Features including Snapshots and RAID take and display physical disks in a virtual format. Such features may include a format to help with the performance or add resilience to the storage that is provided as a volume to the host. Vendors of the storage array also implemented storage virtualization of their respective arrays within the operating system. This kind of virtualization of storage is called virtualization of the internal storage. Additionally, Veritas and several other storage vendors implement the external storage virtualization. Hardware Virtualization It is probably the most common type of virtualization nowadays; a virtual machine manager (VM) called the "hypervisor" makes hardware virtualization viable. The hypervisor produces virtual versions of computers and operating systems and consolidates them into one massive physical server, allowing for more efficient utilization of all hardware resources. Also, it helps users to run multiple operating systems concurrently on the same machine. This year has been very exciting year for cloud computing and it is only going to get bigger in the years ahead. It’s quite clear why businesses are preferring cloud computing; they are easier, affordable and it is easy to use cloud services of third-party rather than maintaining your own data centers on your own premises. Due to the shift in cloud computing, businesses, irrespective of the size, have been allowed to access scalable resources, lower their IT costs, and cut down the on-site load of their IT infrastructure. No matter what size, your business is the looming threat of hackers to steal information. So, in a situation like this, businesses should act responsibly and ought to be prepared when it comes to securing their data from hackers. It is indeed possible to keep your data secured on a cloud, but there is no doubt that cyber-threats are evolving and cloud severs are their key target. Here are a few tips on how you can safeguard your cloud security from cyber-attack! Identify the risks first The first and most important thing to do to prevent your business from a cyber-attack is by carefully scrutinizing the internal and external vulnerabilities your business encounters when it comes to hackers. What you need to do is prohibiting the way from where you think a hacker can gain entry into your system and that can be done by identifying your weaknesses. The most apt way to do it is to be informed about the several cyber fraud schemes and threats, such as malware, system hacking, phishing and various others that a business faces. Once you know your own vulnerabilities, you can handle them in the following ways. Data Encryption To date, encryption is the best way to protect the confidentiality and privacy of your data. Keep in mind that hackers are always looking for standard company-held information, whether they are bank-routing digits or employee social security numbers. So, remember to take measures to get this information encrypted. You can guard your information by switching to full-disk encryption tools which come by default with most of the operating systems. It should not take more than a minute to switch encryption of these devices on and all files on your drive will be encrypted without slowing down. Moreover, end-to-end encryption ensures the best level of protection for secretive information and documents. As a result of end-to-end encryption, encryption is carried out on the client side so that files are encrypted before they leave your device and continue to be encrypted till they reach the supposed recipient. Stronger Passwords and Authentication This is the most common warning you must have heard a hundred times. But people give it a deaf ear and create easy-to-remember passwords, which is why their accounts get hacked. The most familiar source of cyber-attack is password prediction, yet it is the most preventable one. The tip is to think strategically when you create them. Moreover, keep changing the password often. Never try to reuse an old password or use the same password for various accounts. Do not keep any password in the cloud, or text file. Furthermore, complement your password with two-factor authentication requirement for accessing sensitive company information services. Prefer Private Clouds It would be extremely foolish to save a little amount of money and go for an inexpensive cloud. The reduced cost public clouds might look tempting, but they are frequently riddled with security threats and vulnerabilities. Although private clouds are expensive, they have minimal entry points and more stringent safety measures in place. Moreover, these private clouds are in a fairly good position to monitor your account while allowing them to preemptively deflect attacks and minimize their impact. Protect Data Transfer Channels The transference of data back and forth to the cloud travels through the internet which is where your data becomes the most vulnerable. Note that data must be encrypted in the cloud environment at all stages of transfer and storage. So, be sure about the channels you pick for data transfer and make sure the data is encrypted before it is sent out anywhere. Protecting data transfer channels is a convenient way to prevent any sophisticated cyber-attacks which most of the people usually overlook. Recognize Your Software Interfaces ERP software applications are accessed through Application Programming Interfaces (APIs) on the cloud. Any cloud developers should assure that the clients access the application through secure APIs which requires restricting the range of IP addresses or giving access only through corporate networks or VPNs. However, it is quite difficult to implement. So, just to be sure yourself, perform the evaluation of the existing API to examine if there are any vulnerabilities. Analyze ways to boost it or you can simply switch to an API which is more secure. Bottom Line With cloud technology, where there are conveniences, there are certain types of risks as well. By understanding and implementing these necessary steps, one can smartly safeguard one’s cloud security, and cyber-threats can be easily thwarted. If the cloud technology is dealt rightly, it can be the most cost-effective and securest place. Recently, with the push in the AI sector, machine learning and deep learning have been on the rise and the early adopters of these technologies are starting to see their results. More and more businesses have hopped onto the bandwagon and started investing their time and effort in fully understanding this untapped domain's potential. Here are our top picks: Numpy Numpy is a library that handles data, particularly one that helps us to manage large multidimensional arrays along with a huge collection of mathematical operations. It is recognized for its execution speed and ability to vectorize. It is ‘core dependence’ for other commonly used libraries. TensorFlow TensorFlow is an end-to-end python machine learning library to run numerical high-end computations. TensorFlow Python offers excellent architecture support to allow fast computation deployments over a wide range of platforms, such as desktops, servers and mobile devices. Theano Theano is a popular python library widely used to identify and detect different types of errors for unit-testing and self-verification. It evaluates and optimizes mathematical expressions concerning multi-dimensional arrays. It is done by optimizing CPU and GPU utilization. Keras Keras is a leading open-source Python library written to build neural networks and projects of machine learning. It provides nearly all standalone modules including optimizers, neural layers, functions for activation, schemes for initialization, cost functions, and regularization schemes. Pandas Pandas is an open-source Python package offering high-performance, easy-to-use data models and data analysis tools for the Python programming for the labeled data. It is a handy tool for munging or wrangling data. SciPy Scipy works alongside NumPy arrays to offer a framework that delivers numerous mathematical approaches. It presents a complete stack of Linear Algebra functions used for more complex computations. Moreover, it supports signal processing, data structures and numerical algorithms, creating sparse matrices, and more. Working from home is the latest reality for many workers in the US, and the world, as the coronavirus spreads. While people these days are away from the public spaces, they are available online. Companies are shutting down their offices due to the coronavirus, and for many, the possibility of working remotely is now a way of life— and simply inescapable. From setting up a VPN to accessing work files to having a decent workout indoors, WFH is the new “normal”! Even if you've done it previously, working from home can feel like a whole new thing now because of the coronavirus: It's all sudden and might last for a longer period of time. Some of employers' biggest concerns involve workers struggling with loneliness, managing their time, and communication with team members. Although all of this can be challenging, having a workable strategy can help you make it through. Set up Your Workstation One simply cannot concentrate on the work while sitting in the living room with family around. You need a dedicated spot where you shouldn't get distracted and deliver the work with greater concentration. If possible, set up a work desk in your bedroom or some other suitable place. By doing so, you will get a feeling of working in a proper office setting. Make Use of Proper Technology Properly check your computer system, internet connectivity, networking tools, emails and video conferencing devices you need to work from home. You should have a good internet connection, which must be VPN-protected, while you work remotely. Data is essential and valuable. So, it's your duty to secure and protect your data from interruption. You can get your laptop or desktop checked by your office network administrator, if necessary. Good Gears Are Essential A proper computer is an essential item, whether you are using a desktop with a large display or a portable laptop that can be deployed throughout your home. Make sure it has a soft keyboard, a video calling camera, and cybersecurity software to secure data. Moreover, in case of a power failure, or virus or hardware breakdown, a good backup solution is also necessary. Keep Track of Your Time Just as you designate and separate your physical workspace, you must be specific about when you are working and when you are not. If you stick with your regular hours, you can get the best work done and be more prepared for the transition back to the office. Also, if your job is collaborative, it makes it much simpler to be on the same timeline as your coworkers. With the help of time-tracking apps, you can keep track of working hours by logging in the start and end time of tasks, ventures, and issues. You can use the time-sheets to prevent any confusion and send them to the managers or employer for approval. Fix Issues Related to Wi-Fi As most devices now connect wirelessly, your home work experience can rely a great deal on your Wi-Fi efficiency. Several devices that run on one network will create internal traffic issues and downgrade performance while working remotely. If you've had more than five years with the same router, now may be a perfect time to upgrade. Newer routers deliver wireless dual- and tri-band networks. You can easily segment the wireless network into two networks with newer, multi-band routers: 2,4 GHz and 5 GHz. The 5 GHz network is a faster, broader wireless band with less interference and is suitable for connecting to, teleconferencing or transferring huge files while accessing business applications. Ensure Security of Home Network Always ensure that all devices on your home network, and those you use for business, have the latest software upgrades (which often contain necessary security patches) as well as any anti-virus software upgrades. Communication is Key If you haven't worked from home previously, there would definitely be some hiccups along the way if you suddenly have to go entirely remote. Communication — particularly with the manager and direct reports — is the secret to driving through these bumps. Come up with a strategy that sets out goals as to how much you will check in and how you're going to communicate any changes or new tasks. Do the same for anyone you usually deal during the working hours. So, you needn't just stick to text-based communication. You may find it better to check in over the phone or via video chat with your manager and coworkers. This would reduce miscommunication and break up some of the social isolation that can emerge during work from home. A DIY website builder is a platform available online where by just signing up with your email address you have access to upload contents such as images, texts, slideshows, etc., on a blank canvas from which you can populate your website. DIY website builder not only gives access for the creation of web components but also cuts down the responsibilities of hosting your web page, so you don’t have to bother about technical details including configuration, security updates, etc. Building a bottom line Business executives, freelancers and entrepreneurs who like investing in e-commerce vendor assistance gets to build their bottom line ultimately. The collaborative approach to selection making gives license to both events to leverage their expertise because it pertains to the gradations of their enterprise. The monthly subscription fees, these enterprises get the tools to build an online store or any static internet site where more complex tasks including hosting, uptime, security, software updates are all looked up by SaaS vendors. Increased Efficiency After the web construction is done for the clients or themselves, business executives are often found frustrated because of the inefficiency of the website they built. They are unable to make changes to their website’s online design, nor can they change or alter text, links or menus easily. Moreover, they cannot add services like appointment scheduling or even e-commerce options without high hand expenses. Fox describes constructing your own billing device as an “iceberg issue”. In the beginning, you see few primary troubles but once you have started, you identify all the complications which lie below the surface and eventually absorb a maximum of a while, lowering usual productivity. Furthermore, business executives frequently encounter problems every day such as software program and system readiness, team subculture, and coding information, among others. Inspirations from B2C It’s been an ultimate decade of the widespread development of e-commerce in consumer market. With the growth of technology, there’s a boom in purchasing online trends which has empowered the purchaser brands. With a sharp rise in e-commerce that has taken over B2B marketplace, these brands have shifted to B2C peers, in order to obtain modern technology so as to make buying experiences more competitive. Evaluating the destiny According to Research, the next huge wave of increase for e-commerce is within the B2B market, and with a view to take advantage of it, groups want to adopt DIY website competencies. “B2B manufacturers are looking to create web sites that permit their customers purchase similar to they would from a B2C web site consisting of Amazon or Zappos,” he says. Online shop builders help us with virtual information and IT help, facilitating us with accountability and dependability. The purpose of the net development assistant is to empower digital agencies, businesses, freelancers with tools that help to build an attractive web site. These Ecommerce Website Development Services have taken over the virtual world. Here's our pick of best DIY website builders: Wix Weebly Squarespace GoDaddy Voice search, a voice command to search the internet, has gained traction among internet users and has taken up a major chunk of the search market. The ever-increasing usage of smartphones and the advent of personal assistants have contributed to its popularity. Before telling you the impact of voice-based search on SEO, let us precisely explain what voice search is... Voice search basically allows users to speak to a device rather than typing keywords into a search query to obtain results. Audio technology uses voice recognition to understand with unprecedented accuracy what the users are saying. Then, it delivers results to the user verbally. Examples of voice search include software such as speech-to-text and voice dialing. Furthermore, programs like Google Assistant, Siri, Microsoft Cortana and Amazon Alexa all make use of voice search capabilities. Impact of Voice Search on SEO In a top SEO survey conducted recently, experts suggested that the SEO voice search figures at the top of the list! Most of the businesses that spend their money to optimize their website have based their keywords on search phrases that are spoken more frequently than being typed. While the advent of voice search does not mean that typing requests will vanish completely, it actually implies that digital marketing needs to respond to an emerging customer trend that is currently taking place. Here’s how its impact affects SEO: Length of Search Queries The number of searches that are spoken are totally different from text-based ones. The text-based searches are based on nearly two or three words, while commands prompted by voice may often be longer than ten words. Natural language keywords need to become more important in order to adapt to these longer searches. Question-Based Search Queries Besides being longer, most searches on voice search are in the form of a question. For example, a search that would normally be typed as "voice search and SEO," might sound like "how will search impact SEO?" in voice-activated commands. Therefore, it is important to look at keywords more as part of the content strategy in the context of a question. Clear-Minded Search Queries Since voice search queries often come in the form of a question, they show the level of intent the user has. If you are a marketer, identifying such high-value queries and optimizing related stuff appropriately is essential. The use of natural language in these cases is more important than ever as the more keywords match user searches, the higher you will rank. 5 SEO Adaptations for Voice Search With voice technology having varying impacts on SEO, here are a few recommended actions marketers should take to adopt More information about a brand and driving traffic is provided by structured data and schema mark-ups. They make pages appear in rich snippets, thus raising the odds of being the first result in voice searches. Google Voice prioritizes websites that are loaded quickly, so marketers must ensure that images are optimized, files are compressed, response times are minimized and the site is completely responsive. Long-tail keywords that represent common queries used in voice search should be used to optimize content, based on natural language. The snippets used are brief answers from web sites and can be used in position zero. To optimize content, try including identifiable excerpts to be featured and make Google's content easier to read with H-tags and bullet points. Increasing domain authority can assist in search rankings; this can be strengthened by using high-quality links. Typing Search Queries Will Soon Become Obsolete The reality is, voice search takes the ground from the conventional ‘keyboard-based search’. Because voice search is convenient. And another factor being that the business leaders are putting forward so much effort and interest in voice-search. Siri, Cortana, Alexa, google voice search are among the four popular voice assistants. These giants bend over backwards to stay ahead of the competition. You must be wondering why that is? Voice search is the best way to use the algorithms that translate human language into the user intent. Serving the purpose of the customer is the secret to success for search engines and content creators alike. Let's think about the best ways we can work with the search engines and encourage users who turn to voice search. Last Note The impact of voice technology is certain to have on SEO. Given a sharp rise in voice adoption and use, the impact on companies would be critical. Businesses that can foresee changes and stay ahead of changes before they happen will certainly reap the rewards in the future. There are a few common mistakes we often overlook within the realm of PPC, which can result in failed campaigns. The telltale signs of PPC mismanagement can be recognized by the most experienced PPC experts. But if you're not a PPC specialist, you might overlook those indicators. Thankfully, these indicators and best practices are easy to resolve to make the most of your paid social media marketing campaign. 1. Account Structure Isn’t Appropriate Poor account structure on Google Ads is the culprit when a PPC ad struggles to yield results. When defining your ad groups, make the keywords as specific as possible. Make use of accurate matches, negative keywords, and avoid broad matches that could lead to wasted clicks. 2. Not Paying Much Attention to Ad Copy Words are incredibly important. If you don't pay enough attention to things like bold headings, clear value propositions and strong, persuasive calls to action, then you're probably missing out on business. 3. Having Numerous Ad Groups & Duplicate Keywords Throughout, managers should have only about 7 to 10 ad groups per campaign and just about 20 keywords per target group. 4. Overlooking Negative Keywords Negative keywords are the reverse of the keywords you target. They help you to ensure that only relevant search terms display your ads. 5. Relevance & Quality Score Matter Your quality score and your CPC are used to determine the position of your search auction and ultimately decide your overall ad spending. The lower your quality score, the costlier your campaign will be. 6. Ignoring Retargeting It's important to reach out to new audiences, but you shouldn't overlook those people who have already interacted with your brand. People who already know you are more likely to trust you and pay more attention to your paid ads. 7. Absence of Landing Page To accelerate conversions, a landing page is crucial. If your PPC advert drives people to your business's home page, they're likely to move on to a competitor. Many big IT companies such as Amazon (Web Services), Google (Cloud Platform), Microsoft (Azure) and IBM (Developer Cloud) have started providing Artificial Intelligence as a Service (AIaaS) in the last few years. These programs are intended to reduce the entrance costs of using Artificial Intelligence to other companies. So, what is AIaaS? Artificial Intelligence as a Service (AIaaS) helps businesses to leverage AI for different use cases while simultaneously reducing risk and expense. This can involve a sampling of several public cloud platforms to test various algorithms in machine learning. The applicability of AIaaS reaches through all sectors and as the features associated with each service provider are different, users can choose from a number of choices, including enterprises. In this article, we will look at some of the advantages that businesses can gain by using AIaaS. Why leverage AIaaS for the business solution? Cost and Time Effective One of the major advantages associated with AIaaS is the reduced expense and time taken to implement the solution. It saves businesses from setting up their own applications by having a ready infrastructure and pretrained algorithms. While earlier business solutions had to create their own application, now all that businesses need to do in this case is to call a service provider. AIaaS is based on existing cloud framework by training the machine learning models and then deploying them for inference to VMs and containers. Service providers use the existing infrastructure that would otherwise have built on IaaS (Infrastructure as a Service) and SaaS (Software as a Service) without building custom machine learning models. That is another significant benefit as it decreases financial risk and increases strategic versatility. Usability With AWS, Microsoft and Google leading the market, businesses are now competing with each other to build tools for data scientists and developers in an effort to be more than just service providers. Adding to this is the move to open-source their platforms such as TensorFlow, Caffe and AutoML enabling developers to create a custom AI model. Transparency With lower costs, there's a lot of transparency within AIaaS: pay for what you're using. Even though machine learning takes a lot of power to hewn it's working, you may only need the power in a short period of time – you don't have to run AI non-stop. Scalability AIaaS lets you begin with smaller projects to learn if this is the best match for those projects. You can customize your service and scale up or down as project demands change, as you gain expertise with your own data. Types of AIaaS Bots and digital assistance This will include, for example, chat bots that use natural language processing (NLP) algorithms that learn from human speech and mimic the patterns of language while providing responses. It frees customer service staff and lets them concentrate on more complicated activities. These are the forms of AIaaS most commonly used currently. Cognitive computing APIs Short for application programming interface, APIs are a means for developers to add a new feature or service without writing the code from scratch to the application they are building up. Popular API solutions include NLP, speech and computer vision, translation, knowledge mapping, search, and detection of emotions. Machine learning frameworks These are methods that developers can use to build their own model, that learns from current organization data over time. Machine learning is often linked with big data but can also have other uses – and these frameworks offer a way to build in machine learning activities without the big data environment being needed. Fully-managed machine learning services If machine learning frameworks are the first step towards machine learning, this alternative is a way to incorporate templates, pre-built models, and drag-and-drop tools to create a more customized machine learning system for developers. AIaaS Vendors The four major AIaaS providers, namely Amazon Web Services (AWS), Microsoft Azure, Google Cloud and IBM Cloud, are quite well-known. Each vendor provides different types of bots, APIs, and machine learning frameworks, as well as full-managed machine learning options for all but IBM. Many well-known technology firms, including Oracle, BMC and SalesForce, are starting to enter the competition. There are numerous start-ups already working on different parts of AIaaS. This is the case in all industries; purchasing the smaller companies is not unusual for the bigger corporations to add the developed services to their portfolios. The Position for AIaaS AIaaS models will be vital for the implementation of AI. AIaaS greatly enhances business processes by providing analytical behaviors that are persistently learned and perfected by a machine. Knowledge obtained from specially-built algorithms allows organizations operate in ever more effective ways based on real-time, highly granular insights. AIaaS is how the promise of AI can be understood, and how businesses will be changed for the better. Everything that once was a distant dream has come to life. It's high time to embrace it. Mobile applications are transforming the landscape of the business. They are becoming more prevalent and more powerful, and most importantly, they can help your business work more smoothly. As a small business owner, the more tasks you can automate, stay organized, and streamline your procedures, the more effective and productive your business will become. Thankfully, there are a lot of applications on the market to assist. So, what are investment apps? Investment applications help introduce stock market trading and financial planning into the digital era. They merely provide a platform for independently investing your money, without the need for a stockbroker or financial advisor. The Best Business Investment Apps 2020 Here’s a list of top 15 digital investment apps for small business owners. Evernote Evernote is a cloud-based notebook where you can digitally organize all your notes, views, to-do lists, memos, receipts, bills, and invoices across all your devices. Evernote is a particularly helpful tool for small companies to organize and share personal agendas and brainstorming with peers. Evernote is available on Windows, Mac, iOS and Android devices. Stash Stash mobile investment app offers investors a digital landing spot in search of the best possible financial market tools. It provides a low-cost method for users to create a diversified portfolio while offering academic content that is tailored to individual investment preferences. Stash is particularly useful in the investment world for beginners, with 84 percent of customers being mentioned for the first time. It also includes tips and information to make learning much easier. Hootsuite Whether you’re a social media professional or a newbie, Hootsuite is an important tool to keep in your marketing arsenal — it’s an automated, hands-off way to manage and posting your social media content, so you can simply create leads in your sleep. With a Hootsuite dashboard you can perform a number of tasks including automatically scheduling posts across all your social media platforms. Access content stored in the cloud. Designate team leaders to approve content. Track important metrics and generate reports. Integrate with popular analytics applications. Square This is a payment app which is a great fit for companies like food trucks, beauty salons and retail stores. Square app consumers get a tiny, portable card reader that attaches quick, easy payments to a phone or other mobile device. Square also provides a point-of-sale system for businesses with a brick-and-mortar store called the Square Register. The point-of-sale app from Square is compatible with iOS and Android devices. Proven If you own a small-scale business, you get to manage and do a lot of things. Proven has set out to make most of your duties less easy while hiring Whether your recruiting needs are constant or random, with the help of this app it would become quick and simple to post work listings, sort candidates, and save and search resumes. It is a great fit for businesses with sporadic hiring needs, such as restaurants and retailers, or for an entrepreneur who has various business obligations and needs to save time on recruiting. DropBox Dropbox is an app that you may already have for private use, but it could also make your office run a lot smoother — in reality, this file-sharing software comes in a just-for-business iteration. Some of the biggest businesses use this app, like Under Armor and National Geographic, but any company that frequently shares files should maintain Dropbox Business in their digital toolbox, regardless of the size. Business App Dropbox gives you unlimited cloud storage, easy-to-use interface, ability to share file with external users and a lot more. Skype You might have already used Skype to keep in touch with loved ones from long distances, but this video conferencing app is a necessary business app if you and your team work remotely from each other. You can use Skype to call anybody in the world on video or voice; you can get up to 25 people together on a call; transfer video, photos and files of all sizes; share your computer screen; and send text or voice messages. Skype can also be used with Amazon Alexa devices. Robinhood Robinhood is another top investment application that is available for investors. The app is especially designed to deal with exchange-traded funds, stocks, and even Bitcoin! This application helps you track your stocks as well as those on your watchlist. Moreover, the app is absolutely free. After logging in, you can set up your challenges and then begin completing those challenges to gain points, educate yourself, and become a healthier investor. Podium Podium is a very useful marketing tool that can assist you in getting and collecting online reviews and testimonials through text messaging. After all, the more people talk positively about your business, the more customers will come your way. Podium offers an easy Google review collection tool, gives access to leave reviews via text messaging and prohibits disruption in review collection process. Asana To improve your business communication and collaboration, Asana is the best choice. Use this functionality-laden business app on your mobile, tablet or desktop to visually map your objectives, update your to-do list in real-time, and synchronize your calendar with your staff. The web-based mobile app allows you to view all tasks and projects and follow progress on the Asana board, and you can share notes, upload files, and interact without having to depend on email. Asana also integrates files with Google Drive and Dropbox and Slack for communication to post updates to a Slack messaging channel. Clink Clink is a savings-based app that invests your resources into a Vanguard-based Exchange-Traded Funds (ETFs) portfolio centered on how aggressive you want to be with your investments. You can plan a certain proportion of your purchases after transactions to be added to your Clink account. For instance, if you’re spending a lot on dining, you can opt to transfer 10 percent of your dining purchases to your Clink account each time. You can also plan periodic transfers to your Clink account from your checking account. MailChimp MailChimp is the best small business app for organizing and automating all of your email marketing activities. You can also build and customize email templates and view your email performance reports. This data can assist you in sending more relevant emails to your clients. The MailChimp app brings this simple and intuitive tool straight to your iOS or Android. MailChimp also has enormous e-commerce integrations like Shopify, WooCommerce, Magento, and more. QuickBooks QuickBooks is a mainstay in business accounting software and its online accountant app is just as regarded with a user review score of 4.9 on the iTunes App store. You can use QuickBooks to track the sales and expenses of your business; view financial reports including profit and loss; pay your employees and vendors; track unpaid invoices; maximize your tax deductions; and more. QuickBooks connects to multiple accounts — including your business bank account, loan cards, PayPal and Square — and quickly and easily uploads data from these sources. You can access QuickBooks on your iPhone, iPad, Android or Android tablet. Slack Slack is an instant messaging platform where you can systematize your team’s discussions into separate personal or public channels or send a direct message. The app brings so much convenience to the business owners that they can simply drag, drop, and share pictures, PDFs, and other documents in the chat. It automatically indexes and archives any email, notification or file, and there is no limit to how many customers your business can add. Acorns Acorns take all the pressure out of investing by automatically completing your daily credit and debit transactions and investing the spare change for you. You can also set up repeat investments on a regular, weekly or monthly scale, one off investment or ‘acorns later’ through the micro-investing platform, a retirement investment scheme poignantly exemplified by a red sunset icon. Your investments are automatically diversified across more than 7,000 stocks to boost investment security and the probability of return. Acorns automatically invests your funds in one of five professionally managed ETF portfolios. Facebook is undoubtedly a persuasive platform for advertisers for countless reasons, including potent targeting options and reasonable costs. Done properly, a Facebook ad campaign can significantly improve your conversion rate, the number of website visitors and your overall performance. But to make your advertisements effective on this well-known social media platform and know what advertisements to run and where can take some time and money. So, if you are looking for better ways to bring the best results, you should do proper research. Any of your Facebook ad costs depend on a number of factors, including your audience, industry, goals, and optimization settings. Here are the top 8 hacks which can drastically reduce costs and increase conversions. 1. Start off with the right audience A strategy is a must even before you think about your Facebook optimized ads. To succeed, you must know your right audience. A thorough understanding of your targeted audience includes what they like, share or mostly respond to. When you narrow down and focus on targeting the right audience, you can greatly cut competition from other brands running advertisements to comparable audiences. You should precisely know that you are in a bidding war with various other brands and you just need to bid on who you really want to reach. So, before you begin optimizing Facebook ads, check your ad reports to see if you target the relevant audience. 2. Ad frequency also counts Facebook experts do not give any specific claims or practices about the frequency of showing the same ad to a single user. But we should also consider the fact that people should not turn off your ad or label it as spam after they get annoyed by seeing it too many times. Do a little research and try to estimate how frequently people will notice your ad when it’s shown to them. A simple way of doing this is by rating the ad’s visuals. You should show each ad a minimum of 3 and a maximum of 10 times in Facebook’s newsfeed. For the sidebar, you could jump to a minimum of 10 and a maximum of 40 ads. 3. Optimized time slots Time frames matter the most in Facebook ads. If you ever noticed, there are some days and time frames when your posts get more likes and those days outperform as compared to the rest of the days; that’s when you need to set up your ad campaigns. No campaign runs successfully 24/7. So, analyze which days perform better in terms of conversions at the lowest CPA. You can go to your Facebook Ads Manager reports and use the Breakdown menu to break down your campaigns by day. 4. Keep your ad copy catchy and concise People nowadays are too caught up to give time to a long-written copy. Pressed for time, they only tend to skim the lengthy text. So, the tricky part of this is creating a compelling ad within this short copy. Keep your brains all active and write a two-line (or maybe one) copy that sums up all the specific points and also a CTA. So, give your best shot and prepare a catchy and concise ad copy while retaining all the elements of a ‘good’ ad. 5. Facebook Messenger ads are the new cool Facebook messenger ads are comparatively cheap if set up rightly and effectively. They show up on the home screen of the Messenger. Placement of the ad also plays an integral role. So, if you are already using Facebook ads and their manager, then the placement of the ads become quite simple. You may also use some of the advertisement material which is already there. The biggest benefit of Facebook Messenger ads is that you directly send people to your website or initiate conversations in order to connect with the users. The good thing: all these conversations are handled by bots, which direct users to the best offers. 6. Redeem bailout checkouts via videos People tend to leave abandoned checkouts for unknown reasons. So, retargeting them with videos can get them back, which results in increased conversions. So, what you need to do is put a video on Facebook about what it is like to be a customer and what benefits and value they may get in return. This video is intended to directly help them see what they're going to get, and the video format is perfect for bringing this kind of personalized message across. This is an excellent way to get them to rethink stuff and, ideally, become a bona fide customer. 7. Placement plays a huge role If your ads are placed rightly, they can bring a great increase in the conversions and hence results in cost reduction. When it comes to serving social media ads, Facebook placement is the original gangster. Not all placements will be available for mobile, and not all will be available for desktop. You need to place your ads accordingly, keeping in mind your target audience. Some Facebook ad formats and placements may better serve your goals than others, depending on your campaign’s priorities. Adidas, for instance, determined that using video with the collection feature of Facebook would be a useful way to display its Z.N.E Road Trip Hoodie's various features. As a result, Addidas has been able to reduce conversion costs by 43 percent. Once you become sure of the placement and format that is working best for bringing conversions, you can raise your bids on top-performing placements. But if an ad placement doesn’t meet your targets, you may remove it from your ad set. 8. A/B Testing is a must Although A/B testing offered by Facebook isn’t the best thing to rely on as it is difficult to use and not entirely accurate, it is still good to run an A/B test with the ads you have. It is always better to be on a safe side with at least some data rather than none. With Facebook A/B testing options, you’ll get a good idea on what’s working and what’s not. We've seen developments in video marketing evolve over the years, from 30-second ads to viral videos to vlogs and live streams. In fact, new technologies have paved the way for more immersive video formats, such as experiences in 360 degrees, ephemeral videos and shoppable videos. According to HubSpot, ‘78% of people watch online videos every week, and 55% view online videos every day.’ Video marketing trends have advanced greatly from 30-second ads to viral videos to vlogs and live streams. Now the path is paved for more captivating video formats such as 360 degrees, shoppable and ephemeral videos due to the new technologies. New trends are coming up this year, and some are fading away. Video marketing is one of the top social media marketing tips to revamp your marketing strategy Here are some of the trends you should consider. Live Videos Live media is one of the most engaging concepts out there. This is due to living interactions with real people. If you are a Snapchat or Instagram user, you might have noticed that a lot of people whom you follow go live numerous times a day. These lives consist of people answering questions sent by other people in real-time. Some might also take dares from other users to do. This content is meant to be interactive. You can save your life using Instagram's feature; however, people will not revisit a Livestream, which is why video style is so effective. Remember, when live radio and television used to be famous among people around the world, live videos recreate the same type of experience by giving people the same phenomenon all around the world at the same time. Live videos are a trend that is here to stay, so it is best to experience with the type. Shoppable Videos One of the biggest trends evolved in the past few years is selling on social media. This has made the interactions between vendors and customers easier and simpler, which makes it up to date to the on-demand industry. A lot of businesses benefit through social media content. There are plenty of videos that allow users to shop on the spot without having to search up anything. They may not have to search for the product manually. They must click on the product, and they will be redirected to the respective site. This trend should not be ignored as recently in 2020, we have seen an increase in the likeliness of customers wanting to purchase a product after watching a video about it. Interactive 360 Videos Another major trend is the interactive 360 videos. We can experience wide-ranging musicals, sports games, and iconic locations using it. Interactive videos might not work every time, but there are different ways of using virtual reality to make it engaging and fun. An example of this could be of an interior design company that would make their audience experience a virtual tour of their projects using virtual reality. As AR and VR continue to grow, we expect to see a more immersive and futuristic style of videos like these. If you are ambitious, you can do something like this yourself. To captivate the customer base, making a video on the product can be quite challenging but very helpful for your business. Soundless Videos Sometimes you are in public and would watch a soundless video. This is a trend evolving which prefers to show rather than explaining through sound. Social media users would like to watch with no sound, or sound can be accommodated using subtitled videos. Creating videos that do not need sounds to be understood or using captions would be a wise idea. These videos can help us understand different scenarios, such as appearance, mechanism, composition, and involvement in daily life. Specifically, rearranging Ikea furniture, silent video trends, and immersive ads trend. Vlogging After seeing the growth of vlogging channels on sites like YouTube, vlogging continues to develop. People document their everyday life, share their experiences, talents, or to express their feelings and personality to the public using vlogging. Actors and influencers use vlogging to communicate with their fan base. We have also seen a lot of brands branch into vlogging. Celebrities and influencers reach out to their followers using vlogging. Companies can interact with their customers with the help of vlogging. Vlogs are a more authentic and unfiltered version of your brand as compared to a company produced project. This gains the trust of the consumer and helps personify your brand. Social Media Stories Publishing ephemeral content in effective ways is one of the advantages of social media stories. After 24 hours of posting stories, they are automatically removed from the site as they comprise of texts and pictures. These have become a new form of vlogging, which is low-fi and does not need the extra effort of editing. Stories will continue to gain fame as they are being implemented by sites like YouTube, Twitter, and Instagram. When we thought that the internet is the best development, the Internet of Things became the next big thing. Cloud Integrated iOS is the Future. Everything is becoming automated. Here are the top 5 iOS app development trends to look out for in the future. 1 - Cloud integrated iOS apps These apps run on the cloud and allow companies to store a lot of data. This increases their effectiveness and productivity. 2 - ATS offers better security in apps Preventing hackers from stealing personal data is one of the main concerns of iOS app developers. 3 - Wearable and IoT The increasing popularity of iOS apps, iPhones are leading to an increased focus on the latest technologies that help revolutionize the industry. The recent HomeKit by Apple is IoT driven and has a lot of prospects. 4 - Chatbots Chatbot technology is taking over customer support from various industries. Chatbots offer a lot of benefits as they work 24/7, minimizing customer wait time. 5 - iBeacon Technology This is another rising iOS app development trend bound to grow in the future. These beacons are wireless transmitters that send signals via the Bluetooth technology. The benefits of cloud-integrated iOS apps are endless. Make the most of it. Some of the most popular names in public cloud services are Amazon Web Services (AWS) and Microsoft Azure. So, which one for you is right? Let's talk about what each provider brings to the cloud table and the key differences between them to help you take the decision. Integration AWS: Amazon has become better linked with the open source community, so that more open source integrations such as Jenkins and GitHub are available through this platform. Linux servers are also friendlier. AZURE: Azure provides native support for such applications if you use Windows developer software such as VBS, SQL server, and Active Directory. For example, you need to currently log in Office 365 or Azure SQL instances with the same AD accounts. For .net apps, Azure is fantastic too. Microsoft hasn't always followed the paradigm with respect to open source, but Azure catches up – now companies can run Red Hat Enterprise Linux and Apache Hadoop clusters in Azure. Computing Power AWS: Users choose size, power, memory capacity and number of video machines and select from various regions and areas for the launch. AZURE: Azure users choose the machine-equivalent Virtual Hard Disk (VHD) to build a VM. Microsoft, the consumer or a third party may pre-configure VHD. The number of cores and the memory should be specified by the user. Storage AWS: AWS is provided with temporary storage when an instance is started and removed once it’s is complete. You can have block storage, which can be separate or attached to a case, just as hard disks. S3 provides database storage, and Glacier data archiving facilities. This supports relational, NoSQL, and big data databases. AZURE: Azure provides temporary D drive storage, Page Blobs for file storage of VMs. Block Blobs and files are also used to store objects. Azure supports relational databases; Azure Table and Azure HDInsight NoSQL and the big data. It also provides recovery platform, import export and azure backup for further archiving and recovery. Network AWS: Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) is supported by Amazon so that users can build independent networks in the cloud. A user can build sub-networks, tables of path, private IP addresses and network gates in the VPC. AZURE: Microsoft provides Virtual Network (VNET), which allows users to build remote and sub-networks, route tables, specific IP address ranges and network gateway. Both companies offer solutions to extend the cloud and firewall option to the on-site data center. Orchestration and containers AWS: Amazon is continuously investing in satisfying requests for new services, which results in more mature analytical services. (ex AWS Elastic Map Reduction Hadoop Support). They have added tools and features for machine learning for IoT and allow customers to build mobile apps or create high- performance computer environments according to their specific needs. It also gives Docker support. AZURE: Microsoft also has a good record of meeting new demand, and offers support from Hadoop to Azure HDInsight. The 2016 Windows Server includes Docker functionality for Windows and Hyper-V containers alike. The platform is able to run Windows or Linux containers which makes Amazon a great competitor. User Friendly AWS: More functionality and configurations are available from Amazon, if you want to know the system. AWS provides lots of support and benefits IT sector, versatility and configuration, and allows many integrations from third parties. Yet AWS has a curve of learning. AZURE: Azure would be easier to use out of the box if you are a Windows admin because it is a Windows platform that needs nothing new to understand. Windows servers with cloud instances can be integrated easily on the screen to create a hybrid environment. Azure works well with software such as SQL and Active Directory. Conclusion AWS and Azure have several similar features, such that one cloud service doesn't automatically have to be "better" or "better" than the other. All depends on what the business wants. Whatever service you decide to contact, you can benefit from an over-the-top cloud solution to meet your business needs. Deployment of Azure IoT Edge modules from the Azure portal is perfect for your business. If you have more than one module that is working together to collect data, it is important to declare the routing rules which connect them. It is no hard to build an automated IoT Edge deployment in the Azure portal to handle ongoing deployments for multiple devices simultaneously. Automatic IoT Edge deployments are a part of IoT Hub's automated system management functionality. Deployments are dynamic processes that allow you to deploy different modules to different devices, monitor the module's status and safety, and adjust accordingly. Here is a process of how to deploy Azure IoT Edge modules: First, you have to Sign-in to the Azure portal and try to navigate to your IoT hub in a correct manner On the left side of the portal is a menu button, select IoT Edge from the menu. Then click on the ID of the device that you choose from the list of devices present there. Then select Set Modules on the upper bar. Then move on to the Container Registry. After you select the AzureIoT Edge Modules section of the page, select Add. Here are a few types of modules which comes from the drop-down menu: IoT Edge Module Marketplace Module Azure Stream Analytics Module Once you finish adding a module, complete the rest of the fields, and review deployment. View modules on your device Once you finish adding deployed modules to the device, you can have a look at them in your IoT hub. You will see the name of each module and other important information that includes deployment status and exit code right there. Deploy modules from Azure Marketplace The azure marketplace is the best online marketplace for software and services where you can access a wide variety of business cloud solutions, authorized, and designed to run on Azure IoT Edge modules. You can deploy the IoT Edge Module easily from the IoT hub in the Azure portal. Here are a few steps to take to install it onto your device: Select set the module which will be listed in the IoT edge module section Then in the Azure Portal navigate to the IoT Hub On the left side, there is an option to choose IoT Edge under automatic device management To receive the deployment, select IoT Edge In the end, select the marketplace module from the IoT Edge Modules section and add it. This whole process is used to deploy Azure IoT Edge Module. You may build a basic deployment that includes runtime modules for the framework, and any overall cognitive function and routes. The important thing to remember is that each device can only use one deployment. Lastly, there is an option to use layered deployment that only consists of custom modules and no other runtime system modules. Azure Active Directory is a service offered by Microsoft, which is responsible for managing applications that are running in Microsoft Azure. It is a cloud-based directory which is involved in management service. The azure active directory also helps in increasing the productivity and security of the businesses. This process includes device registration, auditing, monitoring security, and alerting. It is cost-effective, as well as easy to use. For better growth of your business and businesses to reach the target audience correctly, Azure AD stands out. All the workers of an organization require exposure to such Azure resources to execute their duties. We will use resources such as SQL server, artificial intelligence, or Azure cloud systems as the administrator gives them different account ids and passwords. Let us have a look at the benefits of Azure AD: Single Sign-on for Multiple Applications Single sign-on makes it easy and fast to recruit new employees, manage the termination, and ensure access to new cloud service, which will help the users to run more quickly. It also helps in compliance with security protocols. Integration with an existing Windows Server Active Directory This means that the company can exploit the provision of on-site identity to handle cloud access. Single sign-on often refers to the Active Directory on-site, providing a seamless working experience for users, whether operating in the office or globally. Pre-integration with favorite cloud services For flexible on board of new product use Salesforce, Office 365, and corporate social Media for your cloud service. Azure AD multi-factor authentication and conditional access Azure Active directory creates better security for the application with 100% control of the management. Multiple platform functionality For real-time communication and better productivity, the Azure Active Directory is inclined to work with more than one platform and device. Azure AD works with more than just Microsoft software Azure AD does not only work with the cloud itself, but it also supports other virtual tools and operating systems that can help businesses to fulfill their requirements. Azure AD reduces risk The biggest advantage of Azure Active directory is that it reduces risks. When the organization has access to services such as Microsoft, the system will have automated behavior of the administration, which will make it feel more confident that the resources are safe. Global availability This cloud service is available worldwide. It has 28 data centers around the globe that do not stop its service no matter what. Comprehensive reporting Enables businesses to track device use and improve protection while defending against advanced threats. Free test run and multi-pricing plans You should test drive Azure Active Directory for free and get a better feel of what the software has to deliver. See for yourself how simple it is to automate your company in all fields – plus Azure AD comes with a specific budget, and the company needs pricing plans. Azure Active Directory empowers employees by providing links to the leading cloud applications and services in the business world on the platform they want, anywhere they need it. IT staff augmentation is a successful way to bridge the gap between skills and make many projects succeed. While many businesses use it to their benefit effectively, others still rely on local talent pools, which are closely associated with long-term recruiting and high costs. They are also hesitant to consider alternative avenues that can help accelerate their project and/or improve its quality. Different from outsourcing IT assistance, staff augmentation basically adds up a specialist to your team when you are working with a new product or technology and you are unable to provide the training and support that your employees need to succeed. We're going to find the truth about the major myths about staff augmentation. And, if you're not sure if recruiting temporary help is a viable option, then read on — we'll help you to be confident with your choice. Myth: ‘Staff augmentation is quite expensive!’ Reality: Absolutely wrong. In fact, in most instances, it is certainly more cost-efficient to deal with outsourced companies than to run massive IT staff augmentation. Staff augmentation also allows businesses to circumvent most direct and indirect expenses affecting in-house employees, including insurance and retirement benefits, compensation of staff, legal processes and even management of office supply. And that's only getting a glimpse. In fact, staff augmentation plays a tremendous role in risk and resource management, far beyond cost savings. Make sure that your IT staffing members have effective and robust hiring processes that guarantee access to the region's top talent. It eliminates the risk of recruiting the inappropriate person for the job and provides a smooth process between sourcing and recruitment. Time savings help companies focus on their core skills to increase the product's ultimate value. Myth: ‘You don’t have control over your project’ Reality: Another commonly held belief is that you lose control over your project with staff augmentation. You hand over the keys to the castle to the company you employ for conventional outsourcing. You have very little control of the success or path that the project should follow until it is complete. Staff augmentation is exactly what it sounds. You hire a team, if you don’t have one, which makes use of your resources and follow the action plan. Staff augmentation adds on your software team, allowing you to maintain full control over the project's course and development. Dedicated developer teams are on the side, and you have direct contact with the manager and developers of the project. Myth: ‘Staff augmentation brings communication gap between PMs and Developers’ Reality: If you outsource a project, you're concerned about not understanding the project's status or speaking to developers about technical answers. You may be worried with time-zone discrepancies for outsourcing abroad, or a language barrier that makes it difficult to get the full scope of what's going on with the project. You have power over both the team and the project while you deal with a staff augmentation company. Your augmented developers are part of your team and are devoted to your project. All updates about your project's progress and success go through you directly. You're the owner, even with remote augmentation. You work with project manager and developers directly. Myth: ‘Time/cultural differences can make your project suffer' Reality: Most certainly, the augmented staff you employ would work remotely with you (although some contracts require their physical presence). This can actually work to your favor in today's business setting, encourage continuous development, and give you a competitive advantage. Because of the time difference, when your local devs are still sleeping, your remote staff on the other side of the world may respond to the problem. It is also common practice to use communication and project management methods to encourage interactions with your augmented development teams. Core cultural differences are hard to overcome, but it may increase your worries about them. Many tech professionals are big city dwellers who uphold Western values and speak excellent English in outsourcing areas such as Ukraine. In the end, it's up to you to decide whether or not you want them on your team. Myth: ‘Staff augmentation brings along a lot of risks’ Reality: Working with new members often brings a natural worry or anxiety. Nonetheless, if it is not possible to achieve your business goals with the support of your existing staff, you can augment it. It's less risky than assigning a totally unknown development team with full control of the project. If you want to be as sure of your success as possible and control your web project locally, with a rise in IT staff you can reduce the risks. Myth: ‘Management of staff augmentation teams is a challenging task’ Reality: Unless an organization can schedule performance, meetings and monitor key performance metrics, this clearly cannot be true. Staff augmentation teams are prepared to assimilate in no time in new environments and transform themselves into the project or organization's structure and procedures for which they work. Physical distances are not a problem anymore. Staff augmentation can benefit your business remotely. It's all about breaking virtual constraints in the IT industry. Staff augmentation can benefit your business remotely. Operating with outside people is natural to fear a little, but factoring in the benefits of staff augmentation will overshadow those worries. Nevertheless, having all important issues in writing and always using transparent and efficient communication channels is good advice. Myth: ‘It's hard to get tech support for the follow-up’ Reality: When the project is done and the team no longer has augmented staff, who is going to provide tech support? This is one of the most forward-looking business owners' genuine concerns. However, this aspect can be negotiated and can be addressed directly in your outsourcing contract. A reputable outsourcing company respects these issues and will provide you with a variety of solution support options. Take away Staff augmentation might be the right fit for the needs of your company. While this is a type of outsourcing, it offers a better way to build and maintain a project by a team of developers. Consider exploring staff augmentation while hiring or outsourcing overseas. Additionally, the team will understand more about how to incorporate new solutions and expertise of long-term internal management of everything. With the availability of multiple feature-rich ecommerce platforms, initiating an online store has become quite convenient. But at the same time, it is quite confusing to pick the best one. Deciding which one to go for is dependent on what you are looking for. Shopify and WooCommerce are the most renowned e-commerce platforms, allowing anyone to set up an online store and sell their products. Below, we are going to compare Shopify and WooCommerce and help you decide which one you should go for. WooCommerce WooCommerce gives you the access to get hold on the most robust content management system and employ it to run an online store. It is an open-source platform where you can customize each feature of your online store. A Detailed Overview WooCommerce is a WordPress Plugin which offers free core plugins. Apart from that various add-ons are also available out of which some are paid while others are free. WooCommerce has multiple features to offer: Various payment gateways such as PayPal, COD, BACS etc. Flat rate shipping and tax setting which incorporates various tax classes and local tax rates Detailed reports including reviews, inventory level, incoming sales, and overall store performance Discount choices, usage restrictions, integrated user reviews. Variety of products inhibiting both physical and downloadable goods Designing Options The developers of WooCommerce are familiar to the worth of design in eCommerce which is the reason they offer WordPress themes that have been specifically optimized for WooCommerce. The specialty of WooCommerce is that it is highly compatible with WordPress when comes to the rich theme selection. WooCommerce themes proffered on Envato Market have been specifically customized for the plugin itself. Not just this, it also offers various other features like zoom in facilities, attractive sliders, bold imagery and a very receptive design and other top-level aesthetics. SEO Since WooCommerce is a WordPress plugin, there are multiple SEO benefits to consider. WP is popular for content essentially and inhibits great SEO capabilities. So, when you place both together, you can assemble both content and information which brings the opportunity of high search engine ranking. Apart from that, WP holds blogging in an adequate and logical way along with the archives and categories which it offers. How it helps you sell WooCommerce facilitates its users with free basic features in the core plugins. They are the best to begin with. If you desire to magnify your online store’s prospective, you will naturally choose WooCommerce extensions. WooCommerce provides many interesting options which allow you to raise your scale, such as selling on Facebook, instinctively record sales in QuickBooks, connect your store with MailChimp, creating repeated subscriptions and a lot more. Some add-ons are paid while others are free. Help and Support With a widespread community of users along with developers whose emphasis is to refine and extend WooCommerce through the development of themes and add-ons for it. It offers reliant ecommerce development service along with thorough documentation. Due to which it becomes convenient to find help and chances are that the solution to your problems already exist there. Costing Although WooCommerce has a lot of free stuff but there are some payments attached to it. For instance, for a WordPress website you need to buy your own domain name and setting up a hosting plan. The cost varies since it is all dependent on the hosting plans you prefer and the add-ons you desire to pick for your online store. Shopify Shopify is an e-commerce platform which has brought convenience to the creation of an online store, accepting payments and managing inventories. Without the worries of handling technicalities like security, web hosting etc. A Detailed Overview Shopify is a self-hosted solution but unlike WooCommerce, Shopify offers no free plans but the costing is manageable. This self-hosted solution makes your store ready in a matter of minutes because there is no supplementary software to install. Just like WooCommerce, there are variety of themes as well as add-ons offered by Shopify which beautifies your store. Shopify’s main feature includes: Number of professional themes available from Shopify as well as the themes available on Envato Marketplace It is well responsive and owes a mobile-friendly design Gives the ability of owning your domain name A complete blogging platform availability Provides in-depth reports and site-analytics Social media and e-mail marketing integration Product variation, reviews and discounts Designing Options Although, Shopify is not that much of a feature rich like others. It provides a good collection of themes to begin with. Its themes range from free to paid. If you wish to add extra features, Envato Market provides an excellent selection of popular yet affordable Shopify themes. Its themes offer features such as zoom in facilities, quick view options, newsletter, look books, social sharing, huge-menus and a lot more than these. You have a wide variety of multipurpose themes to opt for. SEO Shopify development Services has devoted servers which caters purely to Shopify stores. Its overall performance in minutely better as compared to WordPress. It has integrated SEO features like image optimization, tags, alt, defining titles and product descriptions. Another plus point is that SSL certification comes with every plan of Shopify without any charges. How it helps you sell Shopify provides a great collection of free features. These features contain discount codes, cart recoveries, Facebook selling, the capability to offer gift cards, and lots more. Just like WooCommerce, Shopify facilitates unique add-ons which gives you the ability to cross-sell, track deliveries and others. Help and Support Shopify offers an in-depth documentation and a vibrant community. When compared, WooCommerce support comes majorly from the community, whereas Shopify has a very devoted team which is available 24/7. Costing Shopify offers various degrees of pricing plans ranging from lowest to highest. It also offers a 14-day free trial so you can decide whether to go for Shopify or not. All the plans include limit free products and bandwidth, a blog, free SSL certification. Domain name can be directly bought from Shopify and even you have the flexibility to connect with existing domain name. Final cost will be defined on the basis of the add-ons and features you have bought. Which platform to prefer? Both Shopify and WooCommerce are dominant eCommerce platforms. It is a very close comparison. Both are feasible choices for initiating your online store in a quick and smart way. Apart from being easy to use and feature-rich, both platforms facilitate a number of options when it comes to visual appearance of an online store. They are suitable for a wide variety of industries and are guaranteed to make your page noticeable to the users. Instagram has been constantly evolving as a social media platform and has brought some of its peers to the ground. It's safe to say that the platform is no longer a parochial social media app, but a comprehensive platform of growing rates of engagement. Aesthetic trends are constantly evolving in Instagram — but what does the feed hold for 2020? The Instagram feed is about to become more creative than before, from the "no-edit edit to home-made videos and the obsessed with carousel posts. Whether you're a brand, business or influencer, we're highlighting the best Instagram aesthetic trends and predictions you're going to need to understand for 2020. To help you stay on top of those changes as a marketer, we're touching on a few Instagram trends that defined 2019 and bringing you some trends to expect in 2020. IGTV Remains Intact Instagram has, over the past couple of months, been one of the go-to video marketing platforms for video marketers. Over the next few years, having an all-new and improved IGTV platform will also cement its position. The updated IGTV platform now allows people to promote their videos across their feed. Thus, Instagram is no longer just for stills, so its video-sharing platform IGTV has evolved. It was quite a rough start for IGTV that led to slow acceptance by users, but IGTV has been improved by Instagram and is actively promoting its use across the platform. IGTV also reflects its competitor not only with the interface look and feel, but also with how users interact with it. More users are also encouraged by Instagram to explore IGTV by getting one-minute snippets on the feed that will direct a user to the IGTV tab to start the video. As such, people are browsing more and more on the tab and it would be prudent for brands to start posting their content on it. Instead of being confined to IGTV, users can now cross-promote their IGTV videos on their feeds and have recently allowed users to share landscape or horizontal videos rather than just vertical ones. When using IGTV, you can choose to go for a more "authentic" and "unfiltered." You can, for example, share insightful interviews with experts, influencers, or just a scene from any of the trending events you are taking part in. Instagram Stories Dominant Over Posts Even though some pages post updates on a daily basis, we see a shift from the post grid to stories in particular. Posts are becoming more curated more purposeful and more minimalist. They carry on an evergreen image and leave the stories with the real-time fun stuff. The reason for this is simple: there is an incredibly high engagement to stories. Postings remain for business information. On the other side, stories are intended to be a keep-tabs-on-the-brand emphasis, with dynamic stickers and swipe-to-see-more links choices. This feature is available for personal Instagram accounts as well as business Instagram profiles, and is a brilliant way to cross-promote your content so you can attract a broader audience. Instagram also has so many great features within the stories to take full advantage of. You can make your story attractive by adding music, animated stickers, locations, polls and more. More and more marketers have shifted their focus on story content rather than feed content, and you ought to do the same. Modifications in Explore Tab The Instagram Explore tab curates content and links you with posts based on your past likes and interests. It used to be generic in the past, but since interest has recently been segmented, you can now move to the Explore tab for content you are interested in. Instagram continues to make finding new accounts easier for users to follow, which is a great thing for your brand. Every day, more than 200 million users visit the Explore page, allowing even more people to see your brand. The content on the Explore page of each individual user is directly addressed to their app activity so you need to ensure that you are marketing properly to your customers if you are hoping to find space in the Explore section of your target customer. Interactive Content is the New Cool For brands on many platforms, interactive content is pretty good right now; not just trends on Instagram, but the platform makes it incredibly convenient for you to jump on the bandwagon. Instagram Stories provides functions such as polling, quizzes, questions and more to grant the followers the opportunity to interact with you and your content directly. To incorporate interactivity in your Instagram story, open the Stories dashboard, take a picture or upload your content, then tap the stickers icon to view all your content choices. It's a cool way to get all the thoughts and opinions of your audience. You can add interactivity just for great entertainment, or you can use it for market research strategically and collect ideas for future products, services and launches. Authenticity Makes You Win Instagram no longer has anything to do with the flawless photos and hyper-curated feeds. It’s becoming more about real life, and what things really look like. 2020 is all about being real, authentic and unfiltered content. To build a stronger connection to your audience, a high level of authenticity can go a long way. Your brand will be more directly relevant to your audience when you can showcase the good with the bad, the struggles with the wins. You can be authentic by getting creative and diverse and use untouched models in your product photography. You may also intrigue users by showing them behind-the-scene content showcasing life of a social media manager, a CEO or any other roles in your company. You can draw inspiration from Humans of NY which is among the first of its kind and has persisted over the years due to the realistic photos of people with compelling stories. Of course, you don’t have to replicate the whole idea but you can get a clue to start a new social media campaign. Influencer Game is Still Strong Influencers on Instagram are still a big deal– so we think it's going to continue to be so for a while. The app places more power in them with the influencers’ growth already going strong. And followers flooding influencer DMs with "where would you get that?’’ on their OOTDs. Instagram recently announced that they are pushing out an influencer shopping option. To make a purchase, users rely on and trust influencers to figure out the many market products and services and provide endorsement. Instagram allows influencers to tag products to encourage users to jump straight into brand product accounts. Many influencers may have as few as 100 followers, but brands have continued to value partnerships with them as getting their message across this way is now considered more authentic. They draw more attention and respond to comments and mentions are more prospective. In fact, these influencers have origins in niches that are hard to reach. Therefore, you will broaden your advertising reach by working with them. Frameworks play an integral role in making Python programmers’ lives’ easier: they reduce development time and allow developers to focus greatly on application logic by automating the application of unnecessary tasks. There’s no shortage of frameworks for Python as it’s one of the top programming languages. Since different frameworks have their own unique merits and demerits, the you need to choose one based on project requirements and developer preference. Here are 5 leading Python web development networks for 2020. Django Written in Python, Django is a well-liked, widely-used, and an open-source Python web development framework that is, most of the time, accompanied by ready-to-use libraries. Some of its outstanding aspects are the routing of URLs, the template engine, authentication, database schemas migration, and an object-relational mapper, making this framework enormously fast, extensible, and flexible. Django also conforms to a number of databases and employs ORM to chart objects to tables in databases. Nevertheless, this framework helps you build any application you are seeking, from small to large web applications. Pyramid This is another open-source system, which runs on Python 3 and is considered to be the least complex to achieve as much as possible. The best aspect of this framework is that it can run on both small and large applications. Some of the main features of Pyramid include flexible verification and authorization, consent, and single-document application. The system provides adequate security measures and supervision through control documents, while the charting of URLs to code is also commendable. If you wish to create high-security and steady web application, however, then you would do well to hire a developer from Python. Web2py This is an open-source, widely-used web development framework, which allows the user to design things very rapidly and effectively, while supporting all acquainted working structures. With the help of SQL database, web server, and an online interface, this framework helps to reorganize the Web application development procedure. Nevertheless, with the assistance of internet browsers, Web2py also lets users change, produce and manage web applications. One of the significant features of this system is that it employs the ticket that allows the instrument to supervise the status and the slipups. The framework has sections in made-up to handle replies, conferences, HTTP requests, and treatments. TurboGears Created as a full-stack layer, this framework is now an autonomous web framework that can work either as a full-stack frame or as a micro-frame. TurboGears is built on MVC where the controller sends the application to an assortment of the controller’s exposed actions. This framework offers all the functionality one needs during the formation of a web application in its full-stack mode. CubicWeb Certified under the LGPL, this is a semantic web application framework which allows developers to build Web applications resourcefully by reusing elements and adopting the popular object-centric design ideas. Some of the key features of CubicWeb include: An engine driven by the application’s precise data model A query language called RQL close to W3C’s SPARQL A selection view framework for semi-automatic text generation A library of modular components that meet mutual needs; and Python programming, language power and flexibility; and SQL database dependability. API management is probably one of the best services you can use for abstracting back-end services and for presenting sets of APIs via one HTTP endpoint. However, here are two important questions most organizations ask about API management: 1 - How to protect API management's Internet-facing public endpoint? 2 - How to expose selected APIs while keeping others internal? The good news is that Microsoft offers a blueprint to support this. There are a couple of architectural components you need: Deploy the API Management in the internal VNET Mode Get the WAF Application Gateway to expose subsets of APIs externally Here is a diagrammatic representation of what goes on: However, there are some challenges you will face to achieve this. The blueprints work, but there are some comprehensive elements it omits. This post aims to provide a clearer guide to this scenario. Architectural Overview How to deem parts of the API "external" via the internet? Is the configuration App Gateway or API-M? The answers to these questions are easy: Within the API-M, there are separate APIs created based on their /external and /internal URLs The path-based routing rule inside the API Gateway redirects all API requests that have /external in their URL to the API-M back-end. This same routing rule eliminates API requests with /internal in the URL Here is what happens: Note: The VNET integrations are available in either Premium or Developer tier. Work with the Developer mode for as long as you can because the Premium mode is quite costly. Maybe, eventually, Microsoft will offer a Basic and Standard tier in the future. Certificates If you want to add a custom domain to API-M and expose it via the App Gateway, you need two things: A public name to which you can add DNS records SSL certificate for the domain Remember, the deployment script assumes that you would have these two certificates: yourdomain.org — for the API gateway yourdomain.org — for the developer portal Use sslforfree.com for testing these certificates at no cost (free). Deployment Script Here are some important rules to recall before you proceed. Adding a routine rule may not allow you to create the maps or allow you to apply routing rules in one single operation. This is why, the script first deploys the App Gateway, and then proceeds to apply the "external" routing rule. It takes time to deploy the resources. Expect at least 60mins run-time. Here is the extra code you may need for the routing rule: DNS Resolution When you configure the API Management to a custom domain, it will respond only to the new host address, i.e., those mentioned above. These two scenarios follow: Externally: external DNS - >App Gateway Public IP Address Internally: internal DNS/hosts file - > API-M private IP Address Testing You have two scenarios you must test: 1. Assess the API across the Internet via the App Gateway a - The external API should succeed b - The Internal API should fail 2. Assess the API's internally a - Both external and internal APIs should succeed Conclusion There may be some differences in the architecture, and you need to find the missing pieces on your own. Individual configurations of these components are quite straightforward. With this setup, you can have a single API-M and use the Application Gateway to publish a subset of APIs. AWS Snowball, which is a part of the AWS Snow family, is a two-channel edge server, data transfer, and boundary storage tool. Optimized devices provide Amazon S3 compatible block storage and 40 vCPUs. They also include Amazon S3 compatible object storage, and are suitable for local storage and transfer of large-scale data. Optimized systems have 52 vCPUs, block and objects storage, and an optional GPU for the application of cases such as advanced machine learning or full movement video analysis. Such systems may be used to gather data, to train and process machines and to store data in intermittingly connected environments (such as manufacturing, industry and transport), or in remote places (such as military and sea operations), until shipping them back to AWS. Such tools can also be rack-mounted to build larger temporary structures and grouped together. To build and test in AWS Cloud, applications can be used to store, pre-process and ship data to AWS on devices in remote locations, with Snowball supporting different Amazon EC2 instance types and AWS Lambda capabilities. Common uses include data migration, data transportation, picture collection, IoT stream capture sensors, and machine learning. Some Benefits of Using AWS Snowball Easy Data movement Snowball moves terabytes of data almost within a week. You can use this to move databases, backups, files, medical records, analytical data sets, IoT data sensors and media content, especially when network conditions prevent realistic timeframes for large amounts in and out of AWS. Process & analyze data locally To perform local processing or analyzes on the Snowball Edge appliance, run EC2 AMIs and use AWS Lambda Code. Without network access you can run applications directly on the system as a consistent AWS environment. This ability lets you build and check your software tools in the cloud but runs them in areas with minimal or non-existent network connections before returning data to AWS. Scalable Multiple data terabytes and many tools may be used parallel or clustered together for the transmission of data petabytes into or from AWS through snowball. Snowball is available in some areas and the location is reviewed once a job is created in the AWS Management Console. Security Snowball Edge apps use sophisticated components, 256-bit encryption and Trusted Platform (TPM) industry-standard modules designed to guarantee the data protection and custody. Encryption key is handled by the Key Management Service of AWS (KMS) and never saved on the computer. How AWS Snowball works Pick your favorite computer from the AWS Snow Family app, Snowball Edge Optimized or Snowball Edge Optimized Storage. Easy notification service (Amazon SNS) for monitoring and configuration options for monitoring like Amazon AMIs EC2 and GPU, generates a job with the Amazon S3 bin. In approximately 4-6 days, AWS will prepare and ship to you the computer. After arrival, power up the computer to activate AWS OpsHub. Link your LAN. Attach your LAN. Use AWS OpsHub for device management, data transfer, or EC2 instances launching. After completion, shut down and return the AWS unit. The dispatch mark appears on the E-Tin panel automatically. Upon arrival in the region of AWS any information stored in the on-board seal is transferred to your S3 seal and checked at approximately the same time you loaded the unit. All data is then removed safely from the computer and any customer information is sanitized. Small businesses are usually on a tight budget yet they want to be on the top of every relevant search result. For your website to rank on any search engine, you must perform proper SEO. Irrespective of size, most companies find SEO a cumbersome exercise. But this becomes especially difficult when you have limited money, time, and other resources. Great organic ranking does not happen overnight. However, there are 5 hacks you can focus on to start moving the needle for your small businesses. 1. Use Free SEO Tools You don't necessarily need a coterie of SEO experts to monitor the performance of your website. There are many free programs out there, such as Google Analytics, that will track the performance of your website. This tool can enable you to see which search queries and landing pages will help attract web traffic from the search results. With this information, you can tweak your SEO strategy accordingly. 2. Optimize Metadata Meta tags like the title tags and meta descriptions in your website's backend are critical to update when you create web pages, as it helps search engine crawlers to recognize the web page's content and validate you as a reliable source of information. The title tag and meta description are there to reassure online searchers that your content is exactly what they’re looking for. Here are some definitions to help guide you through: Title tag: This is the text appearing as the title in the search result pages. When the user clicks it, it may not be the same title found on the actual page, so it is recommended that you adhere to the same title. The title tag should not exceed a maximum of 55 characters. Meta description tag: The meta description is like a teaser, a short rundown of what's on the page. It's shown in the search engine result pages below the title tag. An optimum meta-description is 150-160 characters long. H1 tag: The H1 tag displayed on the web page usually contains the page title. Short for "Headline 1," this is usually a page's biggest font and most people see it as the header. Make sure there is only one H1 tag on each page that contains a keyword relevant to what the page is all about. Other smaller subheadings are generally in the group H2, H3, or H4. 3. Allow Comments on Your Posts Allow, interact and engage with comments on the page. This is because it's a great SEO opportunity, among other reasons. Commenters often leave information that you may have missed, and post visibility increases with conversations, comments and shares. 4. Put Quality Outbound Links in Your Content Google's search algorithms are all about discerning content of high quality from contents of low quality. In Google's eyes, high-quality content is informative, authoritative and has a good reputation elsewhere on the web. Therefore, it is important to make other sites link to your website. There are opportunities to do so but a lot of it isn't in your reach. What you should do, however, is to embed insightful links into your content of reputable websites. This means that your content is informative, well-cited, and, therefore, of a high quality in Google's view. 5. Manage Local Business Listings & Citations You need to monitor the accuracy of your local business data, in addition to Google My Business. Consistency is pivotal Data aggregators (e.g., Neustar Localeze, Factual) exchange local business information, including the name, location, and telephone number (NAP). Make sure the NAP information is consistent and accurate for your business. Local business listings and quotations (i.e. online mentions of a business) can actually boost your local presence. The simplest option to local directories and citations is to sign up for a service that distributes your business’s NAP information. In this post, we have highlighted 10 of the most important on-page SEO considerations today. E-A-T E-A-T stands for Expertise, Authoritative, and Trustworthiness, which is the framework used by Google raters to evaluate content creators, web pages, and websites in particular. Title Tag In the header section of each webpage, the title tag, an HTML tag, gives an initial cue or context as to what the topical subject matter is of the respective website on which it is placed. Meta Description Meta descriptions and meta tags explain what the page is about; they are often shown in the SERPs below the page title. Headlines To stand out on the SERPs, headlines need to spark an interest. A great headline can mean the difference between a click and an impression. Header Tags Header tags are HTML elements (H1-H6) used to identify headings and subheadings from other text types (e.g., paragraph text) within the content. Content Audit It's important to audit the existing content. Many producers of content focus on creating new content so much that they forget to audit their existing content. Image Optimization By optimizing images optimally, you can make the most of a valuable SEO asset. But not all images are created equal; some may slow down the website. User Engagement Improving the on-page SEO elements of your website is only half the battle. The other half is to make sure users shouldn't bounce. SEO Writing SEO writing means writing content that takes into account both search engines and users. Keyword Cannibalization Identifying whether keyword cannibalization is present on your website is critical. Resolve it right away. Facebook Pixel is a business tool for Facebook It can monitor conversions on your website as a part of your Facebook Ads, target different audiences, and give insight into how users engage with your content. What is Facebook Pixel? The Facebook Pixel is a piece of coding that you position on your website, enabling you to analyze sales from Facebook ads, automate advertising, build targeted audiences for potential ads, and target people who may have already connected with your website. The Facebook Pixel functions by dropping a cookie that will record visitors to your website so that they can be reached afterward, often known as retargeting. When you advertise for people who have been on your website, you could also include the Facebook Pixel to monitor their conduct when they get back on your website. That, in addition, lets you find out what ads are most successful, thus allowing you to reach audiences with increased relevance. Do You Really Need to Set Up a Facebook Pixel? Of course, yes, For the following reasons, Optimizing ads for conversions Facebook conversion tracking Facebook retargeting Optimizing Facebook ads for value Discovering lookalike audiences To get more Facebook ad tools and metrics Steps for Creating a Facebook Pixel You can develop and execute the Facebook Pixel from the Ads Manager Go to the Pixel section Click ‘Create a Pixel’ Type the name of your Pixel Click ‘Install Pixel Now’ Copy the Pixel's base code and paste between the tags on each web page or in your webpage template to install it on your whole web site. If you would like to make note of various sorts of actions on particular pages add 'events' to that particular page. The event code allows you to track and leverage certain activities in advertising Note there's only one Facebook Pixel per account and you can always add multiple Pixel in events on different types of pages. Use the Pixel Helper, a tool that helps you verify your Facebook Pixel. With the help of this tool, you can test if your Pixel is working properly, solve basic problems, and learn how to improve performance. Add the Facebook Pixel to Your Website When your pixel is created what you need to do is follow a little more step to get everything fully set up. These steps depend on your role and your understanding of the back-end of the website. If you do not regulate the back-end of your website You need to send the installation instructions to him or her. This is done easily by navigating to the pixels tab in your Ads Manager, selecting Set up Pixel" and then "Email to Developer Details about how to install the pixel would be sent direct to the email addresses you choose when you press "Send." If you update your website’s back-end If you're trying to install the Facebook retargeting pixel on your own, first, you're going to have to find the header code for the website. Then copy and paste the code to the bottom of the header above the closing tag. Then finally to make sure your Facebook retargeting pixel works, press the Send Test Traffic" button and wait a couple of minutes. If you don't get any response check to make sure you have configured your pixel properly. But if you are still having trouble, please contact Facebook support. After you've completed the procedure, your pixel will be ready to go. And if you want to, you can power it up to do even more. Conclusion Facebook Pixel offers a variety of useful information to business owners and marketers alike. You can use this to see what Facebook captures for visitors to your website. Now with all the hard work of setting up your pixels is done, it's really easy to use and reuse them in your future Ads. And as long as your pixels are set up on the right pages, you'll be able to monitor traffic, conversions, and audiences that benefit from your Ads and boosted posts. Facebook ads can be highly lucrative and generate a substantial amount of quality traffic if pixels are properly set up, implying they are as much targeted as possible and carefully monitored. You can also make use of social media marketing tips for better conversions. EC2 stands for "Elastic Compute Cloud,” which is an exceedingly popular service at the very primary part of the AWS platform. This service allows you to effortlessly rent components of computer power, storage, and network connectivity units functioning within AWS's gigantic set-up. When you decide to deliver your customers, users, or readers with a web-based interface—anything from a communal wiki to a fully advanced, multi-level mobile business program. You can use those resources to build a virtual machine that will function and look like the real thing to the outside world. What is EC2 in AWS? Amazon EC2 is one of the utmost used and most straightforward services in Amazon, so according to logic, starting with EC2 is the best decision if you are new to AWS. However, the main question is: what is EC2 in AWS? It is an engine with an operating system, and it can fit any hardware components of your choice. But the difference is it's entirely virtualized. Several virtual computers can be run in solo physical hardware. EC2 is one of the essential mechanisms of the AWS environment. EC2 allows on-demand and accessible computing using the AWS cloud. How Does Amazon EC2 Work? Using Amazon EC2 work is quite simple. You can use the pre-configured AMI (Amazon Machine Images) template. On the other hand, you can construct AMI, making sure it contains all the important files, libraries, configuration settings, and applications that you require. Network access and security can be arranged through Amazon EC2 for customization of settings. Then you can determine the AMI instances and choose if you want to run it on multiple sites. You can also use static IP endpoints with the use of minimal AWS Console. After everything is done, boot, terminate and track all the instances you need. Any management tool and web service can be used to do this after paying for the resources. The elasticity of the services you use is reflected using the Pay-for-What-You-Use bill mode. The VM environment can be used to check the resources you use. It differs from conventional on-site hosting, usually presenting you with a restricted number of resources for a defined time. This shows that you frequently can’t answer hastily to an alteration in usage as you do in a secure, elastic, and stable environment of Amazon EC2. Key Features and Benefits of EC2 Easy to Use The architecture of AWS is so easy to pick up that a beginner can easily understand it. A newbie or an experienced person would have no problem using it. The AWS Management Console and the organized web services are the reason why it is so easy to use. Instance Type as per Requirements It is explicitly enhanced to fit several cases, such as providing a broad array of instance types. In general, multiple variations of networking capacity, storage, memory, and CPU provided by different instances, will facilitate different choices for your applications to have a perfect mix of resources. Amazon Machine Image (AMI) A template that contains the software configuration needed to launch your application server, applications, and operating system is known as AMI. AWS Marketplace supplies a variety of options to choose from, including AMI. Networking Configuration For the EC2 to be secure, you need to make the following: Public & Private Subnet, Internet Gateway, VPC, Route Table, NAT Gateways, and Auto-assign Public IP. Termination Protection Unexpected Termination won’t happen using the EC2 as it enables protection against it. You can use the API or command line to terminate your instance through the Amazon EC2 Console. User Init Data To transfer configuration files, cloud-init supply a system with a set of rules for execution of boot time, which is an early service for the initialization of operating on cloud distributions. Storage If you needed a cost-effective, multipurpose, and easy to use data storage, Amazon EC2 has got you covered. It has unique stability and combination. The storage options can be matched individually as well as combined. Security and Reliability If you want your infrastructure to be secure, AWS has an end-to-end solution for it. It delivers top-quality security and stores your data in data centers of AWS so that your privacy can be preserved. It just shows how effective and functional the AWS cloud is. Users rely on AWS because of their highest security standards. Store the .pem File Securely The .pem file created can be securely downloaded to the server. CloudWatch Detailed Monitoring You can monitor AWS resources and real-time applications running on the AWS using the Amazon CloudWatch. You can collect and track variables that will help you keep track of your applications and resources. For your ease, the notifications and alarms can modify your resources automatically however you would have to state the rules for it to work. Adding Tags Customers can assign metadata to form AWS resources using Amazon Web Services. Each tag contains customer-distinct keys and to make things easier it has voluntary values for filtering, managing, and searching for resources. There was a time when companies were eager to move to the cloud. Shifting to the cloud has traditionally meant opening up the data to the possibility of breach. There were also concerns as to how a cloud can be actually secured. Nevertheless, as years have gone by and technology became advanced, public trust in the safety of using cloud has also increased. In fact, the cloud has become a necessity in most organizations now. So, here are five ways to build a cloud-ready application. Double 11 is Alibaba's biggest promotion. It has become one of the most important days for most eCommerce websites, among them is Alibaba. The Gross Merchandise Volume (GMV) last year reached as much as RMB 268.4 billion. Over the years, to maintain its supply chain and to meet the demands of people, Alibaba has partnered with merchants worldwide. The merchants deploy products customers are likely to purchase at a local warehouse. From a technological perspective, the competition involves the use of big data and AI capabilities. To succeed with Double 11 Alibaba resorted to using big data and computing power. They have algorithms running that can predict the styles, price ranges, and categories. The big data includes Elasticsearch, Hologres, and Graph Compute. Merchants must know which products are more likely to sell and plan their supply chain to determine the best approach to achieve a cost-performance ratio. Then, they can deploy goods at local warehouses to bring them closer to the customers. Therefore, using big data and AI for Double 11 and similar special days proves to be a very good approach. Alibaba's central data warehouses are on MaxCompute. This product currently has 100 thousand servers at 10 centers spread across the globe. Overall, using big data and AI has made managing big sales easier for Alibaba. According to CSA or Cloud Security Alliance, more than 70% of the businesses in the world operate via the cloud. Cloud storage comes with benefits like lower costs, automatic software updates, higher flexibility, increased collaboration. Cloud storage gives users the freedom to access data and work no matter where they are. Even with convenience, some security issues come with it. It may come as a surprise, but as many as 90% of agencies using cloud storage have concerns about the security of cloud storage. These concerns often center around the vulnerability to hacking. Malicious hackers can get into accounts and breach data security. To get a broader picture of the risks here are some concerns most people express: 1. Data Breach Cloud storage and computing is a relatively new phenomenon and has existed for some years. One important question that often pops up is "Is it safe to store data online rather than on the premises or in-house?" According to a study titled "Man in Cloud Attack," more than 50% of the IT and security professionals believe that the security of their organization is low. They have taken fewer measures to ensure their security. 2. Hijacked Accounts The implementation and growth of the cloud in organizations have led to a new issue - hijacked accounts. Hackers have succeeded in taking over accounts and the data in them. They can steal and use employees' credentials to login and access the sensitive information stored over the cloud. 3. Insider Threats It may seem unlikely, but sometimes, people from inside your organization become a threat. They use unauthorized access to access and misuse sensitive information e.g. customer credentials and financial forms. 4. Malware Injection When the wrong kind of people attack cloud-stored data, they can inject malware or embed codes that become "invalid instances" and run on SaaS cloud servers. This can cause malicious code to cause problems on the cloud server. 5. Cloud Services Abuse With the increased use and expansion of cloud storage and cloud-based services, small and large enterprises have been hosting a huge amount of data. Illegal software, digital properties, hackers, and outsiders can easily spread malware and access data. The risks of stolen data also involve pirated versions of data e.g. music, books, videos, etc. 6. Insecure APIs Application Programming Interfaces tend to give users the option to customize their experience. APIs can be a risk to cloud security due to their nature. However, they are an authentic solution for most businesses, because they provide encryption, controlled access, and are authentic. 7. Data Loss When there is a malicious attack, there is the risk of losing data stored on the cloud. Besides, even if there is a natural disaster, the service provider can lose its entire data. This instance can prove devastating for businesses that do not have a backup or recovery plan. Conclusively, to make the most out of cloud storage, it is important to take necessary measures against these concerns. Business owners should build strategies to protect their data. Choosing between IBM Cloud and Google Cloud can be difficult. Nonetheless, we are here to make things easier. Keep reading to know more and make the right choice for your business needs. Google Cloud Platform (GCP) Google is famous for its cloud platform, which proves to be ideal for enterprises. Their cloud platform is very developer-friendly. What makes Google a good option is their App Engine product, which ensures and provides agile development. Besides, you get features like compute, storage, networking, and others. The only con is that they have limited services as compared to its competitors. Pricing: In terms of pricing, GCP is famous for its cheap prices. You can use cloud resources on a per-second usage tier. This offers much value to the users. Moreover, there are good additional offers in the first few months. If you are wondering why to choose Google Cloud – then its budget is affordable, and the cloud services are powerful. IBM Cloud IBM cloud goes toe-to-toe with Amazon Web Services. However, it falls short in some ways. It offers the necessary features required for custom applications. IBM Cloud is great for blockchain applications like Google. They have awesome customer support like Google Cloud. Setup and deployment are very easy as Google. However, the biggest con is that the IBM cloud has a very strict security protocol, which needs careful setting up. Pricing: The payment is tier-based and there are two payment modules. You can pay as you go and you have the subscription model. If you are looking for a competitive service, then go for IBM. Hope this article helps you decide which is best for your needs. In recent days, the usage and sale of digital devices such as smartphones, tablets, laptops, etc., have increased exponentially. These devices connect to other mobile devices allowing users to share and access data and applications on the go, anywhere, and at any time. The traditional infrastructure is a thing of the past now. Managing data has become costly and is not as easy as it once was. The rapid growth in internet usage worldwide has led to cloud computing, which offers a means of managing data of any size and variety. Cloud computing introduces ways of providing new resources through the internet based on hardware ownership and storage location. Now, users of cloud computing do not own its infrastructure, rather the service providers own it. This gives rise to some privacy and security concerns by users. The Cloud computing domain is very broad. It is almost impossible to address all its components in this article. However, since we are mainly interested in the data staging issues in cloud computing, we will focus on them alone. It is important to mention that as organizations and individuals store more-and-more information on cloud storage, more security breaches and privacy problems are arising. Storing sensitive data on the cloud is not always advisable. Classifying Data Security Issues The most common and important concern when it comes to data security is the technology uses for its storage. In an uncontrolled environment such as Cloud Computing, ensuring acquiring the right technology for data security has become very challenging. One needs to distinguish and identify the security risks associated with IT infrastructure and the risks caused by using cloud computing. Generally, the risks associated are open, shared, and distributed environments. To analyze the associated risks, we must separate the existing problems and those raised due to cloud computing. When one outsources data to cloud infrastructure, it becomes more vulnerable than data stored on a traditional infrastructure (local server). There are three reasons for this: The data is on the provider's infrastructure There are different users' data also stored on the same physical infrastructure The data is easy to access via the internet This classification is based on three aspects of cloud computing: - Single cloud characteristics - Cloud data life cycle - Data security attributes. Data Issues Based on Cloud Characteristics There is no doubt that the cloud infrastructure is different from traditional infrastructure. There are some benefits that come with these differences, just as there are inconveniences coming along with it. Below are some of the benefits and inconveniences based on the main characteristics of cloud computing: Leased Infrastructure In this case, the cloud infrastructure does not belong to the user. It belongs to the service provider. Users are not purchasing the hardware dedicated to their data storage, but as leasing it from the provider. The advantage of this infrastructure is that users get storage at an affordable cost. The main inconvenience here is that the users lose control of their data when there is a breach in security. Open Infrastructure Access to this infrastructure is via the internet. The main advantage of this is ubiquitous access to services. The main inconvenience is that there are multiple entry portals. Shared infrastructure This is a shared cloud infrastructure that is unlike the traditional infrastructure. Elastic Infrastructure The users of this cloud can scale the resources up or down based on their needs. In other words, this infrastructure varies with the user's demand. This form of cloud computing scales to the demand. The main advantage of this form of infrastructure is resource optimization. The con is risk associated with resource reallocation. Virtualized Infrastructure This is the basic concept supporting cloud computing. It is more of a virtual machine rather than a physical one. The pros of this are optimized infrastructure, and the con is that it is associated with classical problems of virtualization. Distributed Infrastructure The distribution of this infrastructure is based on global geography. The pros are increased storage capacity and computing, while the cons are maintenance and management of the infrastructure. Some other risks to data due to these infrastructures include: Data-in-transit Data-in-use Confidentiality Integrity Availability The Solution to Data Issues and Risks The best way to elude these issues is by protecting the stored and transmitted data by encrypting it. Data security solutions depend on parameters like data type and data size. Over the past few decades, cloud computing and modern technology have led to the revolutionization of how we collect data, process it, and store it. Small and large business enterprises are moving their infrastructure to the cloud in recent years, because of two main reasons: massive storage capacity and accessibility. Encrypting the data keeps it secure – and therefore, managing secure data is something you need to be familiar with. Although there have been improvements in maintaining data security in recent years, it’s still far from satisfactory. Data centers keep valuable and sensitive information, which is why they need to implement firm security protocols, both virtually and physically. Once data centers can implement a good architecture to protect their data, they can be safe and implement their security policies. You need to consider different parameters before selecting which data centers are right for your needs. In this piece, we will address what data center security should entail and how you can make sure your data remain safe on the cloud. What is data center security? By definition, a data center is a facility where organizations can store large amounts of data. These facilities have a robust IT infrastructure, designed to ensure the safety of data at different points. Organizations storing data at these data centers can organize, process, and store their data, and recover, backup, and do more with the data no matter where they are, and at any time. Data centers store critical data, which is why they have to ensure security at a high level to protect their users. Factors that Govern the Effectiveness of Data Centers There are three things that matter: Physical security Restricted and managing access Setting up tested security protocols and measures Each of these components comprises different elements, which ensure the effectiveness of one another. All of these can ensure maximum security, surveillance, and access to locations remotely, and ensure multiple authentication protocols. Together they ensure a high level of security and compliance with security policies. Before selecting a data center, make sure you look into how they ensure security and whether they implement best practices to protect data. 5 Best Practices That Ensure Data Center Security Having addressed the basics of data center security, now let us address five best practices that you can look out for to ensure maximum virtual and physical security. It is not possible to list all the best practices, so we have selected the top 5, which are as follows: Appropriate Physical Data Center Security For proper physical data security, one must look out for certain factors. The main concern one must have is the facility architecture. The offices must be independent, to keep limited access and protect the data. The windows and walls must be bulletproof, there must be few windows, and personnel should guard each corner of the building against threats. The environment generally must be secure. Monitor and Restrict Access One major threat to avoid is human error. Data centers must ensure that the personnel who have access to the data are trained and do not have access to key assets without proper authorization. Unauthorized personnel should not be able to enter or access the restricted rooms, nor gain control of any server. There must be layers of security protocols that can be both digital and physical, such as the use of biometrics, retinal scans, etc. Efficient Network Security Network security is more of a virtual protocol. It involves using technology and different tools to ensure the security of data. Networks must have proper firewalls setup, there must be intrusion detection systems, and ways to monitor and inspect the traffic. This is necessary to keep hackers out. Most data centers also use ACLs (Access Control Lists) to make their defenses robust and impenetrable. Data Protection (Encryption and Monitoring) It is not possible to separate data security from data center security. To ensure protecting one or both, it is necessary to encrypt the data, especially during transfer. It is also important to monitor the data all the time and maintain regular backups. The use of strong passwords is also highly recommended. Latest Technologically Advanced Infrastructure It is necessary to ensure the data center uses the latest technology and there is no redundant infrastructure. Redundancy means leaving data sensitive or liable to threats like hackers. There must also be minimal downtime to prevent risks of losing firewalls and protective measures. Using the latest technology can also ensure there are fewer human errors. Conclusively, the right data center would ensure implementing all the best practices and infrastructure to manage and protect data across the entire facility. Thanks to modern technology, cloud computing offers flexible and innovative ways of providing for and managing business enterprises. It makes managing big data analysis and IT-based applications easier. The main goal of using cloud computing is to make data constantly available, ensure scalability, and to meet client requirements. Cloud Federation a heterogeneous and multi-cloud environment, which consists of cloud infrastructure. It aggregates different service providers and offers insight into interoperative issues. Before addressing the issues in Federation Cloud Computing, we need to shed some light on how it works and what it is, and its advantages when used right. Interconnected Cloud Service Cloud Federation is an interconnected cloud service provider, which operates based on certain standards. It offers a multi-provider infrastructure and makes sharing and collaboration easier across the organization. There are legislative constraints when it comes to the location of data storage. Cloud Federation aims to provide legislation compliant services for customers. Using Cloud Federation, cloud service providers interconnect their infrastructure to ensure better resource sharing. The service provider applies federation regulations as well. Advantages of Cloud Federation Access to data and resources worldwide Rise in fault tolerance, which serves as insurance against the providers Prevention of vendor-lockin situations Enhanced manageability Improved data management Security and privacy Interoperability and federation Adaptability and virtualization Energy efficiency Programming models Types of Cloud Federation There are two types of Cloud Federation: Horizontal federation - This takes place at one level of the cloud. For example - application stack. Vertical federation - This takes place at multiple levels. Note that cloud service providers voluntarily connect with Cloud Federation and its infrastructure. This allows them to share their resources following standard regulations. When multiple clouds are used, there is no voluntary interaction or sharing of cloud infrastructure. Problems Faced by Federated Cloud Brokers The problems that brokers and cloud service providers often face are managing and providing the following federated cloud systems: Interface: Different cloud service providers have different APIs, infrastructure, and prices. It is important to initiate an open cloud computing interface to provide a common application programming interface. Networking: It is possible to locate different network architectures. However, to interconnect these machines, there will be a need for physical networking and steady IP address schemes. The sensitivity of running strategic information remotely can be a major concern. Resource Heterogeneity A different cloud service provider offers a different virtual machine. Each machine varies in its capacity to process and store data. Usually, cloud owners may consider purchasing the latest model without retiring the old model, creating heterogeneity. Conclusion Cloud Federation is a new technology and few people are aware of it. They know a little about its impact on the future of cloud storage and servers. Nonetheless, Cloud Federation has a great influence on how the application and resources of computing are developing in the modern era. We have discussed how this technology works and explained the issues users may face. While handling these issues may seem rather difficult at this stage, there will be improvements in the coming days as more organizations begin to adopt it. Have you recently developed an interest in deep learning? Do you want your business to take advantage of deep learning and flourish? Don’t worry. We have you covered. We will ensure that you pick the best framework out there, allowing you to reach your goal quickly. Azure has created quite the hype. What is it about and how to use it? Let’s enlighten you. What is Azure? Azure is a public cloud computing platform developed by Microsoft. It contains many different services that can be helpful to help grow your organization. It can be used for building, testing, and managing applications. What are Microservices? Microservices is an architectural way of building applications that are easily adaptable to change. They are made up of small modules that are connected to other modules. The main purpose of microservices is to make it easier for developers to develop and change their applications. If developers want to implement a service in an application, they do not need to rebuild the application. Instead, they can simply add it using microservices as it allows services to be added independently. Benefits of Microservices Easier to manage applications As applications are split into different modules and are connected simply with each other, it is very easy to manage it. Adding new services or features to your applications has never been easier as it does not require you to rebuild the whole application to add something new even if they don’t share the same technology stack, libraries, or frameworks. You do not need to search for hours and hours through the code to find where the problem is as each microservice itself is a different chunk or set of code. If a small problem occurs in your microservice, it would not affect the whole system as microservices are independent of each other. It is easier to update your service with new and improved functions. Productivity Microservices help you become more productive and eliminate the unnecessary factors which will make you less productive. This makes the development process for developers faster and more manageable. Microservice’s architectural structure allows different teams to work on different parts of the application simultaneously which results in a faster and more efficient development process. Flexibility Microservice can be written and used in different technologies. This makes sure that your creativity is not limited to one technology only. You can use any technology which can be beneficial for the service you are providing. Code can be written in different languages in different microservice components and they would not affect each other as microservice is independent. This also helps ensure that if any new and advanced technology is invented, your whole system does not need to be rebuilt from scratch. Simplicity Microservices are very easy and simple to understand. This helps out developers who are new to this concept. They will adapt to it easily and help their organization grow using microservices. Developers are not bombarded with a mix of things as everything in microservices are organized and set up properly so that they can be managed easily. The app development industry is advancing at a tremendous rate and, for beginners, it is very hard for them to know where to start. We make the task easier for you, allowing you to begin learning the best app development frameworks. React Native Developed by Facebook, React Native is one of the most popular app development frameworks out there. Many high-performance apps have been built on this framework. It is great for developing both Android and iOS apps, and is a powerful and reliable app. Also, it has a cross-platform framework ability, which helps speed up the process for developers. Flutter Developed by Google, Flutter is a software development framework. Easy-to-use, it uses the same code for iOS and Android and has a flexible UI that is immensely helpful for developers. Ionic Ionic is a widely-used open source framework built with Angular and Cordova. Its specialty is that it can be used to develop apps for three different platforms: iOS, Apple, and Windows. This framework is easy to adapt to and has its set of default UI elements used to help developers focus on advanced features rather than the basic ones. Xamarin Acquired by Microsoft, Xamarin is an open-source framework which also has the ability of a cross-platform framework. It uses the same code for iOS and Android. With a huge community of more than 1.4 million developers, it uses the programming language C# so you do not have to learn Java for app development. Nowadays, open platforms such as desktop and laptop computers provide complete choice to the users regarding what software to run, the power to read, to modify and to delete the stored files on them. This freedom of choice has created problems such as insecurity for the user due to being prone to viruses, insecurity for the network on terms of viruses that threaten other systems on the network, and insecurity for software authors and content providers regarding the allowance of copying without limit and loss of quality. What is Trusted Computing? It is a collection of ideas and proposals for a locked-down PC architecture, gives assurances about the application software run on it, and allows secure communication for applications with other servers and applications. The encryption of pathways between the system and its peripherals such as monitor, mouse, and keyboard is done. The encryption keys are built into the hardware of the system and are unavailable to the owner of the system. The operating system is run by the PC only if it can authenticate its integrity and identity, enabling it to communicate securely with remote servers to assure the identity and integrity of application software before running it. What does Trusted Computing require? It requires hardware support to enable the following: Hardware encryption keys Secure execution Memory curtaining Temper resistance A small ROM program is given control at boot time which verifies the hash value of the operating system code before loading and running it. This guarantees the expected operating system which can, in turn, verify the hash of application programs before running them to check their honesty and credibility. What is a Trusted Computing Group? Trusted computing involves the enhancement of hardware and modification of associated software. This venture and specific plans are cooperated by Trusted Computing Group which consists of numerous major hardware manufacturers and software vendors. The specifications for computer resources protection are developed and promoted by a trusted computing group from malicious entities threats without infringement of end-users rights. How Microsoft defines Trusted Computing Technology? Microsoft breaks down trusted computing into four technologies which altogether require the use of new and improved hardware at a personal level computer. These four technologies, listed as follows, can be effective if they are supported by refinements and advances in operating systems and software used by PC. Secure input/output which addresses threats from spyware that captures the displayed content Remote attestation which discovers changes that are unauthorized to the software by producing certificates encrypted for all applications on the system Memory curtaining which avoids the programs from reading or writing inappropriately to others memory Sealed storage which allows computers to store encryption keys securely as well as other critical data What are the Applications of Trusted Computing Technology? There are many applications of trusted computing technology, which are as follows: The authentication of the platform The security of data The improving of reputation reckoning The management of digital rights The prevention of cheating in multiplayer games The computing of the third party The usage of anonymous service The balance of privacy and security Businesses worldwide are increasingly becoming aware about how to provide easy access to their services and infrastructure over the internet. Cloud Computing is the on-demand available computer system that allows data storage and access over the internet. Cloud computing raises privacy concerns because the service provider has access to all the sensitive data. There is the risk that the provider my disclose the sensitive data or use it without authorization. However, there are some privacy and security threats that come with using cloud computing. These include: Data loss Data security issues Service disruption Malicious attacks Multitenancy issues Two Categories of Cloud Computing Security - Network Security - Data Security Data Security means ensuring safety against unauthorized access, modification, disruption, use, or disclosure of sensitive information. Data security comprises three attributes: Authentication, Authorization and Auditing. Network Security is a broad term that covers multiple devices, processes, and technologies. It sets rules and configures the design to ensure optimal protection of the computer networks and data. Some Unwelcome Consequences of Data Breaches: Compromised reviewer anonymity Disclosure of researchers Acceptance of success records How to Protect Data Privacy on Cloud Storage Use data encryption Avoid storing very sensitive information on cloud storage Limit access to the cloud storage Cloud load balancing means distributing computing resources and workload in a computing environment. Load balancing enables enterprises to manage workload and applications easily. This entails allocating resources among an array of computers, networks, and servers. With Cloud load balancing, enterprises can achieve higher levels of performance with lower cost. Cloud load balancing gives you the advantage of scalability and rerouting workload as per the demand. It also enables health checks of cloud applications. This year Adobe Max 2020 was showcased virtually due to the coronavirus pandemic. An update in all the recognized products of Adobe including Photoshop, Lightroom and Premiere Pro has been announced. Not only this but a California-based company, San Jose, has also announced new adobe products including Illustrators and Fresco with upgraded UI & features. One major update which was a buzz last year, the launch of Adobe design app, will be launching this year around. Adobe will be launching design app illustrator for the iPad and drawing app Fresco for iPhone. This update didn’t come as a surprise as it was already available as a private beta as well as on pre-order. But still, it is good news for a lot of illustrator users. The Adobe illustrator app on iPad has come with the support of Apple Pencil that will enable the illustrator users to get fine-tuned control on the designs. Moreover, the users of iPad will also get the most demanded features of Adobe desktop version, including grid, radial and mirror repeat. This newly launched illustrator app for iPads includes the feature of zoom in & out with simple pinch gesture; objects can be selected by tapping them and more. The new update in the Illustrator will be supporting 18,000 fonts and also allows the users to upload their own designs and customize them. In other words, Adobe illustrator has ported the app to a touch-interface that will not only improve user experience, but will also give them space for creativity in their designs. Adobe has also announced the new Recolour Artwork feature for the desktop users of illustrators. With this update, users will be able to change the color themes of their design in just a single click. Additionally, some optimizations have been announced by Adobe for the users who are willing to switch between their desktop and iPad in order to improve their cross-device experience. Meanwhile, Adobe’s drawing app, Fresco, which was only available on the iPad and Windows, will also be available on iPhone after this recent update along with upgraded version 2.0. Adobe is trying making Fresco a go-to app for the artist so they can use it on-the-go when inspiration strikes them. Adobe has also announced that the Fresco app for iPhone will be having all the features of the iPad app with additional changes in the design in order to accommodate the app I n the small screen of the iPhone. Not only in iPhone, but Fresco has also announced updates on iPad and Widows version that will be bringing new features supporting text, brushes, smudge tool and pressure sensitivity controls. The app is available for download with a monthly fee of $9.99. Good news for the Adobe’s Creative Cloud plan subscribers as this app is available free of cost for them. Adobe’s approach with recent updates is to maximize its reach and usage by enhancing as well as promoting creativity among mobile phone users. Other than this, the virtual conference also covered the preview of content attribution tool prototype under the Content Authenticity Initiative that was launched at previous year’s Max conference. Integration of Adobe Sensei is among the most significant updates that will bring a profound Artificial Intelligence experience across all the apps of Adobe. Furthermore, users will now be getting augmented focused reality updates in Adobe Aero and XD. The Sensei integration in Adobe Photoshop has brought a new feature of Sky Replacement that enable the users to separate the sky from the foreground and make relevant changes in the image. Adobe Photoshop also has the neural filters that are based on machine learning algorithms for providing next-level image manipulation. The discover panel has also been upgraded to utilize AI for providing personalized recommendations based on the user’s work. Not only this, but Adobe has also introduced an Object Aware Refine Edge and Refine Hair option that is based on AI and enable the users to improve their images. Recently, Facebook officially announced an upgrade in Messenger API that enabled its integration with Instagram Direct. It is further improved with the update to include support for the Instagram Direct. This update has not only changed the logo of Facebook Messenger, but will also be facilitating the businesses with new connection possibilities. Facebook has been trying to unite its different platforms, including Messenger, WhatsApp and Instagram. This will not only help Facebook have the most extensive customer share but can facilitate businesses with innovate marketing opportunities. The latest API upgrade will help Facebook put Instagram in the way of business communication platforms. “The new API features enable businesses to integrate Instagram messaging with their preferred business applications and workflows; helping drive more meaningful conversations, increase customer satisfaction and grow sales”, Facebook explained. This new updated API has changed the scope of Messenger for businesses by enabling them to build additional procedures on the back of the Messenger infrastructure. This way, companies can have advanced utilization of Facebook messaging engines to attain their corporate and marketing goals. Moreover, through this integration, business owners, as well as third-party messaging service providers, can develop new customized workflows for maximizing the use of Instagram Direct in their messaging process. Since its launch, the color of Facebook Messenger had become iconic blue. But after this expansion, its color has been merged with the color of the Instagram logo in order to reflect the merger of two platforms. And honestly, it looks cool and amusing. Also, the upgrade includes new updated chat themes which offers the accessibility to customize chat themes. According to Facebook VP, 10 million people customize their chat themes on a daily basis. Actual reason behind this new expansion If we see the current situation, this Facebook upgrade has taken place when Instagram is already pushing ‘shopping’ as its core activity by launching Instagram shops and making visual changes, thus promoting the shopping features. Facebook also said, “It will be possible for businesses to use the information from core business systems right alongside Instagram messaging, enabling more personal conversations that drive better outcomes. For example, businesses integrating with a CRM system can give agents a holistic view of customer loyalty. This update will also bring Facebook Shops messaging features to the Messenger API so businesses can create a more engaging and connected customer experience.” Furthermore, this new integration has enabled automation of Instagram Direct responses which means that businesses can effectively engage their potential customers even without being physically present to attend them all the time. In other words, this new update will improve overall customer experience with the brand. Additionally, Facebook has stated that “over last year, total daily conversations between people and businesses on Messenger and Instagram grew over 40%. For businesses, the opportunity to drive sales and improve customer satisfaction by having meaningful interactions with people on Instagram messaging is huge”. This new upgraded API is still in beta testing phase having top businesses on the list including H&M, Michael Kors, Sephora, Adidas, Nars, and more. This beta is also available to limited developer partners. As per Facebook, recent data suggests that new Instagram opportunities are growing fast. Therefore, this update can be a big thing for brands that are effectively utilizing Instagram for their businesses. If other companies wish to have the API post-beta, then they have to join the waitlist for requesting the accesses. Currently, the messages are appearing on the Brand’s Messenger and Instagram tab depending on the platform on which customer has sent the message. Furthermore, Facebook has shared its plan of bringing the cross-app communications to businesses as well as developers in future updates. When somebody wants to find a specific business or a place near their location, they will search for it on Google. They will inevitably discover the local results in their search results and Google maps. For example, if you want to find an Italian restaurant near your location, you can easily locate it if you search “Italian restaurant’ in your Google search engine. It will show you every possible nearby restaurant that you would like to visit. This is one way how Google helps to improve the businesses reach, marketing, and engagement. Update Your Business Information for Improved Visibility It is likely that your business does not show up for related searches in your region. Thus, you must ensure that the business information in Google My business is engaging, complete, and accurate to maximize users’ visibility of your business in the local search results. Some ways in which you can improve the local ranking of your business on Google are: · Entering of Complete Data The most relevant results are favored by local results for every search on Google. The right searches match easily with those businesses that have complete and accurate information. It is necessary to make sure that every information about your business is up-to-date. Data such as what you do, where you are, and when they can visit you are most important and needs to be entered completely so that users can find you easily. This can be related to a physical address, category, phone number, and attributes. · Verifying Your Location The location of your business should be verified so that they are more likely to display across Google products such as search and Maps in its local search results. · Keeping Accurate Hours of Your Business The business hours should be updated regularly. Keeping in mind the opening and closing, events, and special holiday hours. The information about accurate hours can let customers have info regarding your availability. This type of data can also give them confidence in your business opening and visiting time. · Responding and Managing to Reviews You should respond to the reviews left by users about your business regularly. The reply to reviews shows the value for customers and for their feedback. The business visibility can improve by positive and high-quality reviews from customers that can increase the likelihood of consumer visits to your location. · Adding Photos You should add photos to your business profile for the display of your services, products, and story of your business. Attractive and relevant pictures can show the associated product that the user is searching for at your business store. How Local Ranking is determined by Google The results on local searches are primarily based on prominence, relevance, and distance. A blend of these factors helps us in finding the best match for our search. Such as, the algorithms might decide that a business that is far away from your area is more likely to have your desired product than a nearby business, hence ranking it higher in local results search. The Relevance of a Business Relevance denotes how well a profile of local business matches your search keywords. The business information should be complete and added in detail to help Google better know your business and relevant searches match your profile easily. Distance to a Business Distance reflects how far each prospective search result is from the location term used in Google search. If a user does not state a location in their search criteria then we will measure distance based on what information we have about their location. The Prominence of a Business Prominence shows how familiar is your business. It depends on information that Google has about your business from social media platforms, articles, links, and directories. Google reviews the count and score factor into the ranking of local search. Positive ratings and more reviews can help progress your business local ranking. The SEO best practices also apply and are a factor in your position in web results. Hashtags are a single word or group of words after the symbol ‘#’, known as a hash. Introduced in Internet Relay Chats for messaging and live chats, hashtags were initially used for tweet chats on Twitter for open group discussions around a specific topic. Its popularity started from Twitter where people used it for tweet chats. Here are some useful tips for using common hashtags: Checking the common hashtags used by followers, competitors, and product partners Engaging with users using common hashtags that are related through retweets, likes, and comments Refraining from spamming your post with tons of common hashtags which may not impart trust in your consumer Different types of hashtags are used for various purposes, e.g., brand and campaign specific, content-specific, and trending hashtags. Let us dive into each of them in detail and talk about its use. Brand and Campaign Hashtags Brand hashtags are made specifically for your own business to promote and market your brand. It can be your brand name or the tagline of your company. It should be unique that defines your business and can be used as your signature tag. For the marketing of your brand, you should get people to use your unique hashtags. Detailed research for the hashtags you are thinking about is to be done by using Twitter, Google+, Facebook, and Pinterest before implementing. The brand hashtag should be short and easy to spell so that your customers can remember it and use it correctly. Campaign hashtags are made uniquely for every marketing campaign of your business such as if you are having a summer sale at your store; a unique hashtag can be used for further promotion. As people use your campaign hashtag, an extended reach will be acquired. You can use the name of your current marketing campaign as the campaign hashtag, which will be unique and different to engage your customers. Some of the useful tips on using business and campaign hashtags are as follows: It should be unique and consistent It should generate awareness and more engagement of the marketing efforts of your brand It should be small, easy to remember and spell for your consumers It should be monitored so that you can respond to people easily Trending Hashtags Trending hashtags are very popular nowadays as people are usually referring to hashtags that are trending and most talked about. They are continuously changing in real-time; a top 10 trend can come and go within a period of merely a few minutes. A trending hashtag can be used when it is related to your business or content. Using a trending hashtag can get your message to reach a massive audience. However, avoid spam hashtags in your posts particularly if they are irrelevant to your content or business. This could be viewed as a poor etiquette and in some cases, your account may be suspended. Content Hashtags These types of hashtags are being used in daily posts. They do not define your marketing campaigns or business or are trending but they are related to your posts. They mainly improve the SEO of your posts by making the consumers see your updates who are searching for, using the hashtag words. The main categories or content hashtags are product hashtags, event hashtags, lifestyle hashtags, and location hashtags. Product hashtags are the ones that people search for common products that they use. These hashtags help to connect the product to its market. Lifestyle hashtags are used for people who have common lifestyles to market their demographics and hobbies. Event-based hashtags can be used for specific content updates such as well-known global celebration or product launch. The use of geo-targeted hashtags can help locally-based businesses connect with their local customers. Now that you have learned the details and use of different types of hashtags, make your content or brands stand out by using these amazing hashtags. There is a specific way in which developers make codes these days, but usually the outcome is that they end up having bugs and numerous errors. Containerization enables developers to deploy and create better application quickly and safely. What is Containerization? For those looking for an alternative to virtualization, containerization is the answer. The general idea or concept of this technique involves packaging or encapsulating the code along with all dependencies, to ensure that it runs smoothly on any infrastructure or platform without issues. This new technique is showing great potential and maturing quickly. The effectiveness it offers is making is very popular among developers. It also offers numerous benefits. It also helps prevent these issues by bundling the software code with related dependencies, libraries, and files that support it to run smoothly. This approach enables developers to pack everything into a “container” that can run over the cloud or any other platform, without bugs and errors. One important thing to keep in mind is that it depends on stored data. Importance of Using Containers Containers are an important and advanced technology that is necessary for cloud computing. Most companies worldwide, small or large, are using containers to improve their software that enables better management. This approach offers continuous integration and delivery, which is beneficial for companies to operate smoothly. It is right to say that containers are the backbone of private cloud storage systems. In the early days, cloud computing was a major game changer in terms of better control on data storage and sharing, and security. It simultaneously supported the use of multiple cloud-based services. This proved an important development in companies that require uploading new applications and existing applications to the cloud for operation and access. There are three major reasons why containers are important: They are a modern approach to using applications They create cloud-native applications for enterprises to use at a large scale They support opening a data center that works via the cloud History and Future of Containerization This technique has been around for decades, but is gaining traction only recently. The reason for this new development is the emergence of Docker Engine, which was developed in 2013. Docker Engine is an open-source software. Gartner, a well-known research firm, projected that as many as 50% of companies would turn to Containerization by 2020. This is happening. Moreover, results from a survey conducted by IBM in 2017 show that this adoption has happened even faster than predicted. The research suggested that 59% of companies had already adopted containerization to reduce the defects in the new apps developed to facilitate businesses. Benefits of Containerization Portability Containerization offers a container, in which all executable files are tied together to ensure that the software launches on OS (operating system). Rather, it is more portable and can run across any cloud or platform there is. Developers will not have a problem building new code for every platform to avoid bugs and errors. Rather they would use containerization and solve all their problems. Speed Containerized containers are also known as “lightweight.” They can share the operating system of the machine without causing other technical glitches. This results in the servers being more efficient and productive. Moreover, it is cost effective in terms of licensing and server management. It also increases the speed of operations. Fault isolation Each container is not dependent upon any other container in containerization. If one container were having a problem, it would not disturb the other containers. The developers can work on a specific part of an application while not ruining the whole application at the same time. This is great for developer teams, as they do not have the hassle of rewriting code, repeatedly, a thousand times. Efficiency As we already know, containers can share the OS of the machine. Containers can share information with other containers, which can result in a faster and efficient time to carry out a specific task. This will make sure that fewer numbers of containers are bought, resulting in less amount of licensing and server expenses. Easy management There are special platforms that support the execution of containerized files. This enables easy management of the containerized apps, and rolling out of the apps. Generally, this provides ease in debugging, monitoring, and debugging. One such platform that is quite popular for orchestration of container systems is Kubernetes. It is an open-source platform or technology, which Google owned previously. It originally automated Linux containerized functions. Now it works with other container engines like Docker and others that comply with the OCI (Open Container Initiative) standards. Security As data is stored in containers and is isolated, this prevents any mischievous code from entering the application and resulting in shutting down the whole process. Containerization security may be compromised. When people have applications that contain sensitive information or data, it becomes mandatory to use robust and additional security measures. IT professionals can integrate these measures into the containers for effective security of data. Many security measures can be taken such as any unwanted code entering the containers that can be automatically blocked and not allowed to enter the containers. Drawbacks of Containerization Site constraints As containers require loads of space, most sites do not have that much server space to allocate to containers. This is why many sites are hesitant in this new technology. If they implement this new technology, they would have to buy loads of server space so more server cost. Limitations in running on bare-metal speed Generally, compared to virtualization, containers tend to consume more resources and that too efficiently. However, it is common for containers to lack in performance due to the lack of networking infrastructure, and poor interfacing between the host system and the containers. Other similar issues tend to exist. To achieve 100% bare-metal speed, you must use bare metal. Fractured container ecosystem Due to a huge competition between container companies, some container products do not work on every other container. For example, containers by Red Hat like OpenShift only work on Kubernetes Orchestrators, and not on other platforms. Complicated data storage Superficially, once the container shuts down, all the data inside the container vanishes; unless you have, a backup stored somewhere. You can save data persistently in Docker Data Volumes, which is a complicated thing to do, and most people are not yet familiar with it. Poor performance of graphical applications You may be aware that some character systems organize server applications. They do not need a graphic interface. Likewise, some creative strategies like X11 video forwarding allow you to run GUI apps inside the container. These solutions are difficult to use, and seldom work. Containers do not benefit all apps Although containers seem to be a great development, and tend to make things better for most IT professionals, they may not always be useful. Applications designed to operate as microservices tend to benefit from containers. The main benefit of using containers is that the applications provide an easy packaging mechanism. Types of popular Containerization technologies Container runtimes · Docker Enterprise · CRI-O · rktlet · containerd · Microsoft Containers Cluster management and deployment · Kubernetes · Istio and Envoy · Apache Mesos · Docker Swarm · Docker Datacenter Storage containers · BlockBridge · EMC / libstorage Container security · Twistlock · Aqua Container Security · StackRox · Aporeto Operating systems · Alpine Linux · RancherOS · CoreOS Container Linux · Ubuntu Core · Red Hat Atomic Host · Microsoft Nano Server · VMware Photon A Comparison of Virtualization & Containerization Many people compare both of these techniques because they are similar in the types of software they allow to run. However, the containerization approach is proving more beneficial than the other and becoming a favorite among IT professionals. Compared to Virtualization, Containerization uses less resources, and enables better use of computing resources. The use of virtualization allows IT Professionals to use multiple OS and Software at the same time, and even share the available resources on a single computer. This means that IT companies can run Linux, Windows, and multiple versions on OS and multiple apps on a single server. The entire data (the OS, libraries, related files, dependencies) are packed into a container forming a virtual machine. Having multiple virtual machines running on a single server increases savings by reducing operational, energy, and other costs. On the other hand, containerization uses the resources in a more efficient manner. It creates a single package of the entire application, bundling it into a code. It configures all related dependencies, files, and libraries that are necessary for the application to run smoothly. Unlike Virtualization, containers do not bundle a copy of the operating system, but rather, it installs the runtime engine on the operating system of the host system or server. Thereby making it a shared server system for all containers. Some improvements that can be made to Containerization Designing and maintaining templates for the containers Adapting/expanding existing governance models and practices Conforming to security policies and standards Integrating with the existing DevOps environment Selecting the right open-source tools from the hundreds available New skills or knowledge to manage the new containerized environment Found this article useful? Share it and let us know your experience and thoughts on Containerization. In the current digital age, Instagram is one of the most popular social media platforms. Its dynamics keep changing, making it essential to keep up with this amazing platform. As Instagram has created a huge record by having active users over one billion per month, its demand for influencer marking has grown twofold. Instagram started as a platform where people share images, but it has now become a primary source of revenue and leads to many businesses. An effective strategy and execution can help you build a community that can improve your brand identity and audience engagement. What is Instagram Marketing? Businesses use the platform of Instagram to achieve their marketing as well as business goals by setting some goals, processes, and actions. Instagram marking is a part of social media marketing and is associated with its processes and goals. Over 25 million businesses on Instagram have their profile and use it as a source to promote their services, product, employee engagement, and brand. A huge competition is ongoing on this platform among the sellers who are trying to beat their rivals by producing innovative, reliable, and relevant content. The main goal of the marketers on Instagram is to form a community, produce leads, develop customer service, escalate brand awareness, and allow conversions. Let us have a look at some of the tips for effective Instagram marketing that can help you gain maximum benefits for your business. 1. Optimization of Instagram Bio The first thing that people see when they visit your profile is your Instagram bio. It is a small information area underneath the username of your profile to share details about your brand. It should be engaging, informative, and captivating to engage the users. Your Instagram bio should have a proper and concise description of your brand, product, or service. The main key features of it should include the following: A short description of the content you intend to make and share Using emoticons that are relatable to the language of your brand and content Adding hashtags and a URL link can play a big part in driving traffic to your profile 2. Incorporation of Relevant Hashtags The Instagram algorithm works according to the hashtags as it allows search of content based on the search of hashtags query. Users can follow the hashtags just like Instagram profiles that show up on their feed. The use of hashtags can increase engagement making its use critical for business profiles. A hashtag strategy should be built that has a well-adjusted combination of self-made hashtags, highly popular hashtags, low search volume hashtags, and industry-relevant hashtags. 3. Leveraging Instagram Stories The stories feature on Instagram has one of the greatest engagement rates on all social media platforms. It is a short video clip or image with a link, gifs, or text that users can view directly from the top of their app within 24 hours. This tool has such a power to connect, engage, and influence the audience in just a few seconds. Instagram stories can be a great way to promote your brand or content with the audience in several ways such as by ‘ask my anything’ feature, hosting a poll, using filters, mentions, and stickers to make them unique and engaging. 4. Responding to DMs and comments The main key to constructing an interactive community is to build engagement within it. These types of engagement are built by communicating with your followers through direct messages (DMs) and comments. These are the best ways to get in touch with your users and prospects. It should be ensured that DMs are turned on and each of them should be replied, as they are the source of possible leads. Replies can be automated by setting up custom responses, as this will help in liaising with the prospects and follow up with customer needs. If you want to stay ahead and maximize the benefits of your brand on Instagram in 2020, it is important to ensure maximum engagement. Implementing these tips will surely help you in the success of your Instagram marketing in 2020. One of the most significant architectural evolution publicized globally was the unification of MVC and API frameworks. The incorporation of the two frameworks has led to a revolution in the web development industry. The combination of MVC, Web API, and Webpages is now a single programming network, known as MVC 6, which takes away the overlap between the three frameworks. Moreover, ASP.NET MVC 6 can now function as self-hosted like Web API 2 and Signal R. ASP.NET MVC 6 is regarded as one of the most successful web application frameworks by Microsoft. With every update, a wide range of remarkable features are incorporated that help designers develop highly-scalable and premium applications. But, before we jump on its functions, let’s take a quick overview of the application. What is ASP.NET MVC 6? The ASP.NET MVC 6 is a stack of three frameworks, which are unified and merged into a single combination. The framework serves to create web applications with any of them, and each of them provides a unique template. Thus, give an impression of being disjoint and distinctive to everyday developer. The framework also comes with other features, which are highlighted as follows: json: It is a new file that manages all the dependencies related to a project. All the references for the project mentioned in the file. The citations get added once the file sets aside. Dependency Injection: It is built-in in this particular version and helps to manage all the necessary components in the application for instance creation. cs: The version has replaced Global.assax, which works to provide methods to register dependency for the application. json: The config.json contains the variables of the configuration environment that include the Database connection string. Functions of unified MVC and Web API frameworks: With the framework, there are countless characteristics that overcome the challenges and boost your performance. · Support for cross-platform: The establishment of a unified MVC and Web API framework helps you to create applications and set them up at macOS, Windows, and Linux. It is because the Microsoft team has put an immense amount of struggle in creating Linux, known as the top-tier option for operating ASP.NET. Top-class performance: The software is one of its kind and regarded as the fastest web application software accessible in the industry. · Asynchronous programming patterns: The software has excellent support for utilizing asynchronous programming patterns, which include in all common. · Razor pages: With the introduction of the framework, we can access new Razor pages. They help to extend the framework and allow encapsulating the controller and model aspects of a page combined with two-way binding. Moreover, categorized as replacements for WebForms. · Multiple development modes: The software comes with an altered background feature. It permits the developer to differentiate between the parts of code concerning performance in development and production. Earlier, the usual way was applied. In conclusion, the unified MVC and Web API framework is a well-appreciated version as compared to its previous type. The blog above has discussed some new features which you don't want to miss. ASP.NET is a developer platform, created with tools, programming language, and libraries for assembling varied types of applications. It also works to extend its support to a .NET developer with the development of tools and libraries required for building web applications. Being an independent source, it exhibits another key feature that goes by the name of container support and cross-platform. Therefore, it means that it can function at macOS, Windows, and Linux, making the platform robust and unique. To understand cross-platform and container, let’s dig in a little deeper. What is Cross-platform? In 2016, APS.NET was released with one operating software only, named as Windows OS. Later, it got restructured, and support of cross-platform was included in it. Here are the features of cross-platform support: The cross-platform support is able to to run on macOS, Windows, etc. It can also work efficiently on diverse and numerous divisions related to Linux. Another trait that makes it stand out is that it extends support to different types of CPU architecture. The cross-platform support also functions to improve and print asp.net applications on Linux, Windows, and macOS. What is Container support? The other characteristic of ASP.NET, which makes it one of its kinds, is called container support. The container support helps developers to place the distributed code diametrically in a cylinder. Many container supports are offered in the marketplace that includes LXC, Cloud Foundry, Docker, Kubernetes, and Vagrant. In other words, container support is light weighted, standalone, and executed software package that is necessitated by the application to operate. The software includes all of its dependencies, which are: Runtime Codes System Library System Tools Other settings needed by the application Simply put, container support helps to build an application once and run it anywhere. Moreover, the developer can isolate each application on a host operating system. How does the container support work? Before jumping on to the question of how it works, we suggest you download Docker first if you are operating on a Windows platform. Once you are sure that the application has been installed, follow these steps: The first step calls for you to build up and publish a required ASP.NET application. Once the ASP.NET is making know, create, and organize a Docker file, which is essential for ASP.NET core application, craft an image for Docker. As soon as the image building is finished, you can move to the next step. You can now create and run a Docker container, which appears at the end of the screen. Once you have finished these steps, you can now see a Docker file is available on the same page where other projects completed by you are saved. As a result, the application you created can now can be operated by Docker file which is available inside the container support. In a nutshell, the features ASP.NET has makes it extraordinary among others and thus it is effieciently used by web developers. 2020 has been a great year for e-commerce. Although, pandemic has hard hit the world and shook even the deep-rooted businesses but for the world of e-commerce, it was a blessing in disguise as it brought all the human traffic to the web-world! It created numerous opportunities for people working in this industry. In particular, women's role and involvement in this industry cannot be overlooked. However, women are still in the struggling phase. A research conducted by Peterson Institute explains this more explicitly, it says that females in their team are more profitable. However, there’s only 4.2% of the Fortune 500 companies are managed by women. In order to fill this gap, many organizations and communities have taken initiatives. Shoptalk is one known name that organizes tech talk events where the entire retail ecosystem gathers and explores the latest market trends, technological advancements, and emerging business models in the e-commerce industry. To promote women in the E-commerce industry's leading positions, all the speakers, including keynotes at Shoptalk 2020, were women. Woman are side by side to men in almost all the fields now and since last couple of years. They have become the topic of discussion due to their zealous hard work, owing to which many organizations realize the significant gap in their teams. In the Asian region, Arab states in particular, majority of women are working in retail, tourism, and doing hospital jobs. And ever since the pandemic has hit the planet, these jobs seem to be struggling. But thanks to the technology, e-commerce has rescued a lot of industries and retail is one of them. It is among the top-performing e-commerce in which a high number of women were recognized for their contribution to redefining the industry and reaching the unimagined levels of success. On the other hand, this pandemic has also cost 700,000 Middle Eastern women their jobs as per the Oxfam report. The ratio of unemployed women in hard-hit countries like Lebanon is almost 63% compared to the last two years. This pandemic has widened the digital gap between men and women of Arab. This means that the primary concern of the Arab women in 2020 has been to retain their jobs while only those with digital skills have these opportunities available. A survey which was recently conducted by the International Monetary Fund (IMF) reveals that women and young people in Australia have been majorly affected because of the Covid-19 recession. Morrison's government has completely ignored women behind in their budget. In response, the IMF called for targeted policy intervention that has protected women and young workers' employment prospects. Meanwhile, IMF also analyzed that there should be a worker allocation from sectors that are likely to shrink on a long-term basis like travel, to the emerging sectors like e-commerce while retraining and reskilling them. Based on the above discussion, it can be summarized that the contribution of women in the industry has started to get recognition and acknowledgment, unlike the earlier times. Women can excel with flying colors, if given relevant opportunities and platforms. The pitfalls of gender biases have been understood as women have proven their skill set in the e-commerce industry. E-commerce for women in 2020 has been a challenging yet productive year. It backed the organizations to understand that limiting female leaders is confining their outcomes, productivity, and performance in the global market. The phone you are having in your hands can do anything from ordering your food to deliver the work emails, anytime from anywhere. If you are an iPhone or iPad user, these tasks become more secure and simple with apps available for everything, be it about work or managing your lifestyle. Apple applications have got some news and updates in the month of November 2020 that you must know about. Let us see what they are: Availability of new subscription server notifications in production You can create customized user experiences as App Store server notifications facilitate real-time updates on a subscriber’s status. Now you can find the following notifications in production: DID_RENEW tells you when the auto-renewal is done by the subscriber successfully. PRICE_INCREASE_CONSENT tells you when the users have been asked to agree to your subscription by Apple Store, this helps you in reminding them that your service has a greater value and they need to stick to your app. Tax and price changes for apps and in-app purchases With the rate change in taxes and foreign exchange, the App Store has also updated the prices. In the upcoming days, these prices will increase (except on the renewable subscription) in some countries that eventually reflect the following tax changes: In India, new equalization of 2% will be imposed (with a tax of 18% in addition to the existing goods and services). In Indonesia, 10% of value-added tax for developers based outside of Indonesia. Apple entrepreneur camp application for underrepresented founders and developers As black founders and developers are building cutting-edge apps for next-generation and forming a global network to encourage the entrepreneurs in technology, Apple Entrepreneurs Camp fully supports them in the execution and longevity. The first cohort is about to begin and run from February 16 to 25, 2021, and the applications are now open for all the black founders and developers. Attendees will be facilitated by the code-level guidance, inspiration, and mentorship with extraordinary experiences and access to the leaders and engineers at Apple. November 20, 2020 is the closing date for submitting applications. Your apps can be pre-ordered earlier than before You can now give your customers the opportunity to pre-order your app up to 180 days for download before its release on the App Store. This is the huge time to work on more features, enhancement services, and adding more content according to the interest you are getting to encourage more people to come forward and make a pre-order. After the release of your app, customers will get a notification and the automatic download will start on their devices within 24 hours. UIWebView extended the deadline for updates in apps WKWebView was designed in 2014 so you can quickly integrate web content into your app across iOS and macOS. Since then, we have recommended you migrate to WKWebView instead of UIWebView as App Store is no longer accepting the apps on these frameworks. However, the deadline for app updates has been extended surpassing the end of 2020. This additional time is provided for you to move on WKWebView and understand the features that developers generally requested. The new date of the deadline will be confirmed soon. Addition in App Store Marketing Tools New marketing resources have been introduced to take advantage of promoting your apps around the world. Now you can generate embeddable code or short links that directly land the customers on your App Store product page and show them the icon of your app, a QR code, or an App Store badge. You can download the localized app store badges, your app icon, and more. Review Guideline updates are now available on App Store App Store is place that is great for developers as well as safe for the customers to discover new applications and download them. The guideline changes on App Store clarify the support over new features in upcoming releases to protect customers and help you in having a smooth review process over your apps. There are many more news and updates that have been made for apps and Apple is continuously making more. Stay connected to learn them in the future. There are always high expectations associated with new mobile product development. Whether it is an organization or mobile users, the news of a new product launch attracts everyone’s focus towards it. While the organizations are focused on the technology of the upcoming product, mobile users expect an even better experience with the company. However, many products fail to meet these expectations and thus, flounder at launch. Every company wants its product to be a success but to achieve this milestone, there are certain criteria that they first need to follow. There are no magic spells just four basic factors that determine the new mobile product’s success. 1. Support from Senior Management Before developing and launching new mobile products seek support from the senior management of the organization. It is essential for the project as senior management should have detailed knowledge about the products such as budget, resources, and project targets. It’s them who will have a final call, depending on the product’s innovation, research, and testing the prototypes therefore, try to take them in confidence from the beginning. They hold quite an experience and knows about user feedback. Getting their support also ensures confident resource management throughout the product development process. If you want to seek senior management’s support, then make sure that the idea of your product is proved. The product can be validated by getting tested by a few real users as this helps in shrinking the probability of uncertainties. The management will have a clear picture of your idea the product and its functionality. 2. Presentation of Concept of the Product Getting an idea approved, depends on how well it is presented. If the presentation is poor then it will probably fail to impress the management therefore, effective communication and conveyance of the concept and its details and knowledge play a major role in the success of the mobile product. However, this risk of mismanagement of knowledge can be reduced with the help of cross-functional teams at the time of product development. This also improves inter-team communication skills resulting in apt knowledge of all the team members regarding the product. Having more teams means having more knowledge, experience, and ideas that can come in handy while trouble-shooting as you will have many shoulders to rely on. 3. Agile development process The agile development process holds great significance when comes to mobile product success. This process has a great impact on managing the development costs of the products. It also makes sure to meet the targets especially, return on investment (ROI). Three fields need to be efficiently handled during the development process. Pre-development work or the design thinking process Specific requirements definition Iterative development To meet the mobile users’ expectations, it is of utmost need to meticulously focus on the three fields of the product’s development phase. By efficiently managing these areas, the development costs of the product can also be saved while keeping up the goals and objectives of the concept. 4. Market Orientation Last but not least, it works best to opt for a market-oriented approach. It means that the company which is launching the product is adapting the design and concept that meet users’ need. Many companies ignore it however when it comes to introducing a new mobile product, leaving the market research for later is a huge mistake that you should not make. The success of mobile apps and products heavily relies on market trends and researches. Therefore, instead of doing the research later, do it even before the development process. Try to make every decision related to the product based on market research, highlighting the needs and aspirations of mobile users. Wrapping Up: If you want your upcoming mobile app a success story then be vigilant of these four essential criteria. Instead of just going with the flow, try to have detailed research on these factors even before the product’s launch. All of these four essentials will make a significant impact on the development process and the mobile product’s success. If you want your business to be successful in today’s hypercompetitive era, then you must have knowledge about the latest technology. Therefore, it is to safe say that technology has become a key element for a successful business. Technology is getting mature at an even faster pace. But in order to outdo their competitors, businesses need to adopt the latest technology. In fact, success of any business cannot be guaranteed without embracing cutting-edge technology. Artificial intelligence, or AI, is one such technology that has taken the corporate world by storm. Artificial Intelligence in Online Lending The days of traditional banking are already an old story now as online banking and lending have taken the lead. Now not many people like to go to the bank personally, talk to the bankers there and try to comprehend the terms and conditions of borrowing money. People, today, prefer a few clicks while sitting on their couch with the help of online banking and lending. They can easily find out the lending scheme that suits their credit score and other needs, without putting their safety at stake, especially during the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. With breakneck popularity of online lending, the significance of Artificial Intelligence is also growing, as it’s needed for the preparation of documents and credit rating systems electronically. It helps banks and other lending institutes to proceed with the process of preparing applications for installment loans and other inquiries at a much faster speed. Not just this, the lender also gets facilitated by AI as it helps them calculate the risks. Lenders can know the creditworthiness of a client with the help of AI. For detailed comprehension, let’s dig into the advantages and disadvantages of using Artificial Intelligence in online lending. Advantages of using AI in online lending Fraud Detection AI has the ability to process complex data which makes it easy to point out any fraud in a loan application. With the help of AI, lenders can skip any malicious client based on their doubtful activity identified by the mobile app. AI also helps in the protection of a client’s personal information and data. This reduces the probability of cybercrime to take place as AI informs the client on their mobile phones about any suspicious activity based on their names or accounts. Fewer Chances of Error AI can reduce the chances of errors while doing complex calculations and filling the complicated information. Machines' actions are usually followed by the previous data, therefore, there are fewer chances of mistakes. Time-efficient: AI skips waiting in long queues and makes the process of lending much faster. With the help of AI, the applicant's creditworthiness can be easily determined. It also makes the processing time for loan applications much shorter as digital assistance makes inquiries simpler. Customer Service Since the loan process can be done quickly, it also helps improve customer service. Now the client can be informed quickly whether their application was accepted or rejected, saving their time. AI also provides them other options that can be helpful for them based on their needs. Disadvantages of using AI in online lending: Expensive: Since it’s an advanced system, AI is expensive due to its installation, repair, and maintenance. Therefore, only a strong institution with significant finances can use this system. Unemployment Since most of the work can be done by the machine, there will be rising unemployment. Restricted Work AI machines can only perform a certain operation within the defined set of rules. These machines are not creative since they cannot solve problems without an algorithm. Therefore, these machines can only carry out restricted functions without changing according to the conditions Mobile phones have become an integral part of everyday life. From communicating to entrainment, mobile phones have taken up the charge to assist us in all our tasks. This has become possible due to the various types of mobile applications that are easily available and are very convenient to use. However, there are many more mobile applications that go unnoticed because they fail to impress the users. Following these tips while developing a new Mobile App, can make it a success: Know your audience using different stats and polls. This will help you design your app according to the needs and interests of that particular audience. Offer value. Your app should have some sort of importance for your audience, even if that’s to kill boredom. Have a definite business model and a clear scope of the app’s features. Whether it's a Cross-Platform Native App or Hybrid App, make sure to choose the right technology that is compatible with all devices. Create an easy to use but interesting UI/UX. The app should have a high performance Keep providing regular updates Your app should be protected to escape the threats to the system. Plan an excellent marketing strategy with the right tool Patch management is the process of handling a full system of computers by constantly testing different patches on them to keep them as up-to-date as possible. Automating this process is known as Patch management. Using patch management, experts detect missing patches and then implement the process of sending out different patches. The entire process is an automated one, starting from the detection of the missing patches to the deployment of the patches. This whole process is done on a centralized patch management server. Advantages of Patch Management Patch Management improves productivity and reduces costs because it eliminates the cost spend on poor patch management. It increases productivity because while this process is an automated one, you can focus on other more important tasks. This helps get more things done. Patch Management removes the risk of any serious security issues. If any company does not have patch management then they are putting their security department at a huge risk. Patch management is mostly useful when new patches come out. Whenever new patches come out, hackers and cybercriminals are already trying to get their way into the patch and exploit in some way possible. To avoid these, it is necessary to add security updates to your patch management. Manually taking care of so many patches on a day-to-day basis is a very stressful and hard task to do. Many times, it can result in huge errors, which can end up you in a dangerous spot. You do not need to pay your Patch management employees to do the tasks for you manually. Why not just automate the whole process. This will save you time and money and benefit your company greatly in the end. If your product is receiving constant new patches and they are fully functioning then your customers will be very happy with you as a company. They will consider you as a company that cares about their product and sends out consistent patches so that their product stays top-notch for its customers. You can add new features to your product using a patch management system. This will improve your product, can help you experiment with what your customer likes, and does not like. If they do not like it then you can just come out with a new patch and remove the new update you added. Best Practices for Patch Management It is always best to keep your Patch management of the highest quality and highest safety possible. Do not worry as we have the best practices for you to implement into your Patch management. Make sure to implement scanning into your patch management system always. An automated scan will detect any sort of trouble or error in your system. It eliminates the need for you to manually go and find the error. Make sure to release patches for your system or software regularly. This results in any hackers trying to exploit your previous patches and they cannot keep up with regular patches. Whenever your scanner scans and finds a critical severity level problem always make sure to fix it and dispatch the missing patch. This can result in huge problems as if you do not take care of serious problems quickly or they can ruin your whole system. You should deal with critical severity levels problems s as soon as possible and medium or handle low severity level problems within a week or so time. Always make sure to scan for any anti-virus updates and send out patches regularly so that you can keep yourself up to date. Always make sure to get your patch management system from a properly managed service provider such as Amsat who provides one of the best patch management systems out there in the industry. You can always contact us for more information and assistance with Patch Management. Excellent Design A website with an excellent design will create a lasting impression on its visitors. Web design services can get you new and upgraded designs. Therefore, you can take help of the best web design company in the USA to give a modern look to your site. Quality of Images and Videos Try to use high-quality images and videos to grab visitor’s attention to your site. It’s even better to use your original content. Use Animations Rather than just adding up Texts, Menu, and pictures, you can make it more appealing by adding animations to it. It will stand out even more. Using simple animations, will not take that much effort but it will surely look more sophisticated. Keep Up with The Updates Make sure to at least keep the website updated with current content such as pricing, product, or service details, etc. Incorporate Parallax Effect Try the Parallax effect as it can give your website a 3D look with minimum efforts. Instagram is one of the most famous social media platforms all around the world. From common people to celebrities, and from small business outlets to large organizations, everyone uses the app to get in touch with friends, family, and customers. The photo-sharing app managed to win everyone’s heart by its amazing features such as photo-editing options and interesting features you get with your friends via Story posting. The on-going pandemic has rather fueled the craze for this app with many viral challenges. However, there are so many features of Instagram that not many users are unaware of. Here are some of our favorite features of the social media platform. Saved Posts Every time we open Instagram, we get bombarded by hundreds of posts. We see a post that we fall in love with but, unfortunately, it goes missing in the pile of pictures and no matter how hard we try to find it again, we fail. But thanks to one of our favorite features of Instagram, the save feature, we can have our collection of these posts that we always want to keep with us. You can also create your exclusive collection of photos and videos that you liked without notifying any friends or followers. So the next time you see an Insta post that you don’t want to lose, remember to press the rightmost button under it. By pressing this “bookmark" option, that particular post is added to your saved list which you can access at any time. Hide Unwanted Ads Do you also get irritated by ads coming next to every story while using Instagram? Well, we guess that you didn’t know you can get rid of these irritants with the help of the Ads disappear feature. Marketers are seeing great potential on Instagram and, therefore, we are getting so many ads that usually ruin a user’s experience. However, Instagram has enabled its users to disappear these ads. Whenever you see an ad that you don’t like, click on the top-right icon above the ad post. You will see many options; simply hit the “Hide Ad” option and no ad will ever disturb you again. Shopping Bag Another feature of Instagram that you probably didn't know about is the Shopping Bag. You must have seen a little shopping bag icon on a photo. But have you ever wondered what does it do? Well, this icon tells us that there is an item in that post that you can purchase on Instagram. This feature lets you buy the products shown in a picture easily while being on that platform. So, if you see an item next time that you want to purchase, then click on the photo and you will see a “view products” option in the bottom left corner. Tap on the product that you want to purchase and simply, click on “proceed to checkout” User Post Notifications Instagram is a great platform for influencers to get loyal followers, who don’t want to miss even a bit of their recent activities. Instead of wasting a lot of time checking their accounts again and again, Instagram lets you turn on user post notifications. This feature allows the app to send you a notification whenever your favorite user posts something on their account or even adds a new story. Clear Search History Many users don’t know about the clear search history feature of Instagram. Whenever you click on the app's search bar to search for something, previously searched items appear as recommendations. At times, we don’t want some of our searches to haunt us. So, with the help of this feature, you can simply clear your previously searched content or accounts. E-commerce platforms have been garnering great response especially in the current time of the pandemic. Many brands have shut down their outlets, however, their online store only seems to boost its sale. The e-commerce giants, since the 2000s, have remodeled the way people make purchases which are only rising in 2020 lockdown. The extraordinary potential in online markets is attracting more stores which is resulting in too much competition. Amid the strong competition, it’s not easy to even stay in the spotlight of e-Commerce. Now, the mere presence in the online market is not sufficient, rather you need to know the right strategies, and limitations to work around them. Many platforms facilitate marketers to become an e-Commerce seller within a few clicks. But doesn’t this facility has made the market saturated? Well, the online market has infinite scope to make money with an opportunity to attract customers from all around the world. However, the most important thing an online store owner needs is to have an amazing marketing strategy. Following are the pro tips that can help you get online store marketing money fast: Use Real Data Real data is an efficient way to make an up-to-date marketing strategy depending on the current patterns of the market. Out of all the ways, social media is a highly effective way to carry on brand marketing. People on social media receive product marketing as a personalized suggestion from their favorite influencer hence, it has a great impact on their choices. Therefore try to get in touch with famous influencers or outlets on Social Media and ask them to market your product. With so many influencers out there, it also gets difficult to decide which one to choose however, data capture can help in choosing the best one depending on the niche of your brand. Always try to reach out to the outlet that has a higher engagement rate on social media. Authentic Image of Brand Glitz and glamour do attract people but that’s not what turns them into customers. A true and authentic representation is the key to create a strong impact on your audience. The customers should relate to your brand’s image. Only then, they will be able to interact with your brand. This interaction would penetrate the ideas of your products through them. Giving them a sneak peek behind the scenes content will develop this integration. User-Generated Content User-generated content is a great way of marketing your online brand. You can get it by displaying reviews of your customers or by sharing the unboxing of your product which usually excites customers. For unboxing content, a product should have attractive packaging. You can ask your customers to share their experience of your product or tag your brand. This will build up your brand image, boosting your online sales. Don’t Be Intimidated By More Or Fewer Followers Many brands make their social media accounts and when they see the underwhelming response on their accounts, they get discouraged and keep waiting for the right to launch their products. However, the higher number of followers on social media does not guarantee you higher revenue. You need to invest quality, hard work, and passion in your brand to make it a success. Learn to Use New Platforms If you want your brand to be recognized by more people or reach more potential consumers then try to use growing social media platforms for the advantage of your product. This, not a traditional way of marketing an online brand, however, platforms such as TikTok help influence customers. It also helps in keeping them engaged with your brand using tags such as “#BusinessTikTok”. If you have been ignoring Facebook marketing, you need to stop doing that now because whether you like it or not, it plays an eminent role for a business. However, we all would agree to one thing and that is, Facebook marketing is only getting more competitive. This competitiveness has also surged the cost per click making the marketing even fiercer by basically decreasing the Return on Investment (ROI). So, if you are just working as per Ad strategies and not using your brain, such a scenario puts your marketing in a difficult situation. If you want to stop losing money there, then it's time to revisit your Ad strategy by using some of the best hacks for your next marketing campaigns. Competitors The trendiest Facebook marketing ad hack is to use your competitors for targeting. It means using the feature of Facebook that allows you to see your competitor’s audience, their behavior, and demographics. You can choose the same demographics and behavior to target the audience effectively. This feature also lets you look through your competitors’ ads. You can find out which Ads are working for your competitor and why. You can simply do so, by clicking on the ads insights option on any of your competitors’ pages in the page transparency field. You will see “Ads from this page” where you can see whether your competitor has an active campaign or not and what ad structure they use for their campaigns with what success rate. Messenger Ad Since Messenger Ad is the newest Facebook Ads feature, it has comparatively less competition, which can get you better results. Messenger Ads enables you to hold a conversation and sales interaction with your potential customers. It helps a new business in getting noticed and recognized faster. There three main types of Facebook Messenger Ads: Destination Ads have a CTA button “Send Message” instead of “shop now”. Sponsored messages send designed messages to user’s inbox to boost strategic engagements Home action Adscreate direct conversations with customers in the home of the app. Video Ads If you ask Facebook users whether they like to read an Ad or watch it, most people would say that they prefer watching. This is why Facebook Video Ads have better results. Although video Ad takes time, efforts and are also costly to create but it creates high engagement. People find video Ads are more informative, interesting, and unique. You can use multiple variants offered by Facebook to build these video ads. With the help of browse a video through the library or create a slideshow with images, you can also benefit your business through this hack. However, there are certain pointers that you should take care of, and that is: Use the correct size and ratio of the video ( I.e. square 1:1 or vertical 4:5, 2:3, 9:16) Use minimum text (no more than 20% text) because if your audience still has to read then what’s the use of video Ads. Keep the Ad short(15 seconds or less), but interesting and impactful. Never Duplicate Your Ads Facebook marketing services give you the option to duplicate an ad or use an ad’s ID, however, it will negatively affect the engagements of the previous Ad. Hence, your social proof and impressions will be lost. People like to follow these social proofs therefore Facebook marketing company uses the preferred post’s ID. Or create your new Id but never duplicate your Ads. In addition to these useful hacks Digital marketing company in the USA can guide with other useful ways of digital marketing services that will boost your business. Over the years, machine learning has evolved, helping us to obtain more and more information from the data we gather. Thus, it has brought great changes to the lives of a UX designer, product designer, and interaction designer and made UX-analysis easier. Here are five ways machine learning transforms the UX-landscape! Facebook is the best platform to promote your brand and reach the masses. Being the pioneer of social networking sites, Facebook has established an identity of adding value to any small venture. For marketing of any brand, this is the most important ingredient. While some techniques can be costly for a business, Facebook promotes brands and earn big profits without having to spend too much. To help achieve this, a Facebook business page has to be perfectly optimized and it takes great SEO power to accomplish the correct optimization. Here, you will learn how you can optimize Facebook business page for your profit. 1. About Us Section The About Us section on your business Facebook page is your introduction to the audience. It tells them where your office is, what services you offer, when your services are available, and more. It is a good place to explain your values, your business’s vision, and how you can benefit your audience with your services and products. With a strong story of your brand, using accurate wordings, including keywords in the About Us section, you can attract many potential customers and optimize your page the right way. 2. Right Keywords For optimization of your business page, there has to be appropriate integration of keywords even when it comes to social media. Place your targeted keywords in the most strategic parts of your page; it is crucial but very important. Place your keywords in the URL, About Us section, page titles, on the home page, and in positions where they appear in top search results. 3. Up-to-date Profile You must have a complete set of required information updated on your profile. Your cover photo, bio, profile picture must contain complete information. When your profile is up-to-date according to the latest trends in the industry, it shows your professional attitude. Additionally, consistency matters through all platforms, especially the main visual match. Make sure the cover photo is optimized in a size that fits the requirement. 4. New Features Facebook introduces new features from time to time to help business pages. It also allows page optimization for businesses to run easily. There are a few features you can add to your Facebook business page such as Call to Action (CTA) which are meant for driving action on the page and enabling users to reach their desired destination. Some of CTAs include Sign Up, Click Save, Download, Contact Us, Shop Now, Book Now, and more. You may also incorporate a payment feature via the Messenger app for mobile and desktop where payments can be made using a debit card without paying for service charges. 5. Pin Important Posts To highlight important posts on your page, you can pin them so that they stay at the top of your timeline. This means that even when your posts get older, they won’t move down. This feature helps promote the content that needs to have a long lifespan. You can pin different posts such as lead magnets, live video, necessary information, welcome video, testimonials, and more. All you have to do is manually select the post you want to pin and that’s it. The Bottom Line Business pages need extra attention especially as they can help you generate revenue. You may also research your competitors to identify the latest trends and formulate strategies that suit your business. Remember, your purpose is to stimulate engagement and receive desired results using correct Facebook strategies. Mobile applications are an integral part of our lives. From waking up every morning with our Apple watch’s alarm to ordering food, booking a cab to commute to work, to monitor our number of steps in our morning walk. This and so much more is just a gist of our daily life reliance on mobile applications. But, have you ever wondered what goes behind the development of the apps you can’t live without? What are the frameworks necessary for their operation? Today we are going to give you the list of the best Android app development frameworks in 2022. Let’s start 1. Flutter Let’s start with Flutter. Flutter is a cross-platform application development framework. Released in 2017, it was designed with the aim of developing the Android operating system. Ever since its launch, Flutter has gained recognition as the most popular framework and dominates the list of the Most Used Frameworks in 2019 and 2020. Currently, it is preferable for the Android framework for 42% of developers. Flutter is every developer’s choice because of its efficiency in rendering 2D hybrid platforms. Unlike React Native it utilizes its own canvas to render app components. 2. Kotlin Kotlin is a Java interoperable framework that is known for its rich features and seamless functions. It is a good choice for server-side app development in 2022. Developed by JetBrains, Kotlin is currently used for embedded systems and iOS which makes it a one-stop language for all areas. Some of the famous apps that use the Kotlin framework include Uber, Pinterest, Google, Tinder, Slack, Coursera, Trello, Evernote, and more. 3. React Native In 2015, the social media giant, Facebook created React Native to be an open-source cross-platform framework. With the help of this platform, apps for iOS, Web, UWP, and Android can be developed. It allows developers to build apps via JavaScript and React with the strong capabilities of native Android app development. The best feature of React Native is that it enables developers to construct user interfaces from the system’s native building blocks instead of simulating native performance like most of the other frameworks. Some of the applications developed with React Native are Discord and Airbnb. 4. Ionic Ionic is one of the finest android app development frameworks in 2022. It is an MIT-certified open-source app development framework that is available for free. Ionic uses the combination of CSS3, JavaScript, HTML5 for cross-platform app development. With its, help developers can build hybrid apps and PWAs (Progressive Web Applications). It is known for its reliability and powerful components that allow faster development. It can easily integrate with other libraries such as AngularJS. Ionic has a wide range of cross-platform functionalities that enhances the construction of Android app development. The Bottom Line We have curated a list after reviewing many factors such as the operating system. development times, and more. Android app development is evolving every day and with such massive evolution, the mobile app development trends have seen big paradigms such as code, platform, script, and more. We hope our list of mobile app development frameworks helps you and you experience the best of growing technology adaption in any app you build. You may be under the impression that your site is completely protected, away from the reach of hackers and cybercriminals. Wrong. The fact is, your website is always prone to being hacked. Hacking is the worst thing that can happen to a website, especially when your entire business depends on online orders or recent trends. However, not every website is hacked with the purpose of stealing data or undermining it; many hackers do so with the object of setting up temporary and web files that are illegal in nature. Nevertheless, it is a terrible experience for your business and for the website itself. Although there are a plethora of many antivirus software programs that help prevent hacking, hackers do sometimes manage to succeed in this malicious activity. So, here we have a few tips on how you can secure your website against hackers. 1. Secure Password This is the most common and most effective tip you can get. This technique helps you prevent login attempts from hackers by securing it with a strong password. It is convenient to choose a password that is easy to remember, but an easy password doesn’t secure your login against hacking. Keep your password long with a combination of uppercase letters, special characters, and numbers. You must ensure that everyone in your team with access to the website has a similarly strong password because one wrong password can ruin everything for your website. 2. Data Backup You must have a fully maintained backup of your website data. It will help keep your data secure if anything happens to your website. Backing up data regularly and storing the key files will protect your website from the threats of ransomware and corrupted files, enabling you to recover the lost data quickly. 3. Admin Directories Rename your Admin directories or find a way to make it harder for hackers to find them. To avoid hacks, you can also disable the directory or alter the site scripts to eliminate them from search engines. 4. Use VPN If you are always on the go, you must connect to public Wi-Fi networks all the time. But, do you know that public Wi-Fi is your enemy? These Wi-Fi networks do not offer any security and logging in to them is an open invitation to hackers. To avoid this, you must always use a VPN. A good VPN provides extra security and benefit to your website so that you can chill and work at any coffee shop with no fear of having your website compromised. 5. Error Messages Be careful not to use your information in error messages. Providing minimum errors to your users will ensure that your secret information is not leaked on your servers. Keep them simple and avoid ambiguity. Detailed error messages facilitate criminals in hacking your website. The Bottom Line There are many tips to protect your website against hacking. Securing your website has become the biggest part of keeping your site safe and secure in the long run. These are the necessary safety measures that must always be used. Remember, hacking is avoidable only if you strictly follow the required guidelines. Unnecessary pop-up ads are one of the most frustrating parts of using the internet. They are sometimes created with the idea of product marketing and may also contain virus if comes from an unreliable source. It’s bothersome when you are peacefully scrolling down on social media or watching a video, and then comes a pop-up ad that hijacks your browsing, may cause glitches, and can even link to malware. Certainly, no one is interested in these ads unless they like advertisements popping up on their screens. Here, we have a solution for you. We will tell you how you can get rid of annoying pop-up ads on your Android devices. 1. Block Chrome Ads The very first step you can take if you want to get rid of pop-up ads is to disable them on Google Chrome. This is the best and simple option if Chrome is the default browser on your Android device. How to do that? Open Chrome. Tap on More. Go to Settings. Go to Site Settings. Block ads and pop-ups you wish to get rid of. 2. Change Website Settings Many websites earn from push notifications so if you allow website notification, it is impossible to not get pop-ads every now and then on your Android device. So, what can you do? Go to the browser Tap Menu Go to Settings Go to Site Settings and tap on it Press Notifications and move the toggle on the other side to disable ads 3. Use Ad Blockers One of the many ways of blocking unwanted ads is by using an ad blocker. For an android device, there is a large variety of ad blockers available in the Play Store. These ad blockers can block ads that pop up in games, apps, and other websites. So, choose an ad blocker of your choice, install it, and use it to get rid of the pop-ups and ads. 4. Chrome Lite Mode Google Chrome browser has a Lite mode for Android mobile devices which is created for fast webpage loading. How can you use it? Open Google Chrome Scroll down Find the Lite mode and switch it This Lite mode can also be used to minimize data use. How to Recognize Malicious Pop-ups? Pop-ups can also be malicious and introduce viruses to your Android devices. But, how can you identify them? They have many spelling mistakes, have strange symbols, unprofessional or immoral images, and contain exclamation marks. If that’s how your Android ad appears to be, change the browser settings and use robust antivirus software. These ads have weird phone numbers and links that redirect you to a new window in its web address. They say that you have won lottery money and lure you into clicking a link to check the money you have won. There are many other signs as well. Nevertheless, even if one or two of them apply, it indicates that the pop-up is not just an ad and you need to be careful with that. The Bottom Line Pop-ups in Android devices can be very annoying. Unfortunately, there is no button with which you can get rid of all of them. Instead, you have to be smart in dealing with them on your Android device. With the given guideline, we hope you have learned how to block pop-up ads. Remember, it is always safe to never open pop-ads as they can be any adware, ransomware, or viruses you are unaware of. These days we see many aspiring entrepreneurs launching their startups. The main issue they face is how they can keep the cost to the minimum level as at the outset, the startups don’t earn much revenue and there are many unavoidable expenses that come along with online businesses. Therefore, to make it convenient for startup owners, there are some tools and resources that can be very beneficial to enhance efficiency and to propel success and growth into startups. Let’s discuss a few. Clarity – Ideation Tool Ideation is a rudimentary ye critical part of any process. This phase is extremely important for you to have a clearer direction on how to proceed further. Clarity is one of the recommended ideation tools for startups as it helps entrepreneurs get the best piece of actionable advice on their entrepreneurial journey from industry professionals. You can ask them how to raise funds, sharpen your skills, research the newest trends in the market, tips on scaling your business, and more that can enhance your thinking process. Mockplus – Design and Development Tool Design and development take a lot of time and require maximum attention. For a fresh entrepreneur, it can be tough as one wrong step in this direction can spell disaster for a startup. Mockplus is a web-based design tool that helps in the creation of responsive wireframes and prototypes. They can be developed using ‘drag and drop’ functions in real time. This tool has diverse components and icons and it not only focuses on the designing part, but also offers team collaboration and handoff management inside the organized system. Foundersuite – Finance and Fundraising Tool Financial balances are an important element of a startup. It helps comprehend the record of revenue generation and more. Foundersuite is the best tool that enables you to raise capital for your startup. It enhances the fundraising and investor relationship by introducing structure, speed, and efficiency to the process. Foundersuite also offers a CRM tool to manage investor funnel and other tools that are required to develop monthly progress reports. Hootsuite – Marketing Tool In today’s world where social media rules the roost, a solid social marketing strategy is key to your startup’s survival—and success. It requires proper implementation of analysis, marketing campaigns, and more. Hootsuite is the finest social media marketing tool available which is very well known in the startup community, essentially for its simple UI and economical pricing. With the help of a free plan of Hootsuite, you can post more than 30 posts all over social media platforms. It not only allows you to evaluate your ROI (Return on Investment) on social media campaigns but also helps you check the impact your strategies have created. The Bottom Line Your startup can either be a hit or a failure, depending upon the tools you choose to make use of. These tools and resources are beneficial for startups and small businesses if they are efficiently used. They can help an aspiring entrepreneur keep their operation easier, more seamless, and more effective. Have you noticed every time Apple launches an iPhone? The world can’t stop buying it no matter what the price is. This is the impact of the first-class mobile platform across the globe. Apple has a reputation for creating high-tech, modern, and quality devices all over the world. This is one of the reasons start-ups and businesses are more inclined towards creating their presence in Apple’s App Store. For them, it is a great way to make money with iOS development owing to its extensive demand. Due to this reason, there is a major rise in the demand for iOS application development services. So, here we have a list of hacks that can be helpful for your iOS app 1. Apple ID If you are an iOS user, you must know the importance of Apple ID and how the tech giant has given maximum protection to every Apple ID that can’t be cracked. Once your application is completed and is now ready to be uploaded on the App Store, you require an Apple ID. Make sure you have the code to sign in before you initiate the uploading process. Having an ID is proof that you are a legit iOS developer. 2. Content Application with a mismatched content layout just doesn’t fit right to the screen and doesn’t catch users’ attention. The layout includes font size, color, placement, and more. Other basic content mistakes that need attention are readability, user-friendliness, and understanding. Readability signifies that the content and its font size have to be clear for the readers to understand. The layout of the content is user-friendly when the designs are properly managed and appear good to the eyes. The understanding of the content is reflected when it has a seamless and smooth flow. 3. Project Directory The project directory structure cannot be missed out on especially if you are working on iOS mobile apps of big enterprises. Even if you have a small project onboard, you must have a strong project directory structure. If it is out of place, you are most likely to see your codes becoming chaotic and losing the balance. So, keep things sorted and work on your project directory structure. 4. UI Elements with 3D Touch UI of an application plays a vital role. The user must find it easy to use, browse, tap on a particular element of the app. Even a simple function such as a Drag and Drop menu must be smooth. In this regard, UI elements with 3D touch are the best option. They work differently for mobile apps and desktops, while 3D touch makes your iOS application more engaging and intuitive for your users. 5. Error Handling Error handling is process of recovering from error conditions. Sometimes users enter an unforeseen input for which the logic is not designed in the backend. These are the instances of logic errors that should be taken care of beforehand in order to prevent the app crash. This can be done if iOS apps use error protocol to derive a custom message to the user on entering a different input. The Bottom Line Rightly done, iOS app development is the best domain to work in and can give you maximum profit. It is important to understand that iOS app development is not about creating a perfect version. It is a continuous process of comprehending the demand, maximizing the use of technology, and putting forth great team effort that can result in a flawless release. Chatbots are all the rage these days, which has boosted their popularity. Chatbots, which are increasingly being used by businesses of all sizes, account for 53% of all online purchases. Creating and distributing chatbots on websites and messaging apps was difficult at first, but with the advent of chatbot platform tools, it has become much easier. Therefore, we have a list of powerful chatbot platform tools to help you build the chatbot of your need. 1. Chatfuel Chatfuel is the most basic chatbot builder which has a simple process developed to design easy messengers such as Facebook Messenger and Instagram. It has a wide variety of pre-made templates that are mostly general-purpose and can be used by anyone. In addition to general chatbots, Chatfuel also has industry-oriented templates which consist of automatic appointment booking and more features. One of the key factors about Chatfuel is that it takes a few minutes to get set up. All you need to do is connect Chatfuel to your Facebook account and link to the page you want. 2. Botsify Another Facebook chatbot platform is Botsify, which allows easy integration of chatbots into the system. Subscribe to their paid package and let Botsify handle your customer service brilliantly for you. Even if you don’t want to opt for their paid services, their free version also helps create bots that are beyond your imagination. 3. LivePerson Now you can create an excellent platform that helps you comfortably deploy, build, and optimize AI-generated chatbots. With the help of LivePerson, you can use advanced analytics for real-time intent decisions and continuous optimization. Some of its features include pre-designed statements that you can send in the chat, hyperlinks, canned responses. Moreover, it serves as an innovative platform with rich chat features that enable flexibility in communication to users and new employees of a company. 4. MobileMonkey MobileMonkey was founded by a famous internet marketer, Larry Kim. It helps create chatbots that can be programmed to book appointments, track orders, answers questions, and use Artificial Intelligence to coordinate intent and content with the help of keywords. It is a well-known Facebook Messenger platform that helps build messenger funnels, grow the contact list, and every segment of the audience. Some of its features include messenger ads, Q&A triggers, chat blaster, bot analytics, drip campaigns, and more. 5. Pandorabots Many industry professionals are very well aware of Pandorabots as it is one of the oldest chatbot builders available in the market. It is a mature open-source chatbot platform tool that uses Artificial Intelligence Markup Language (AIML) and enables users to create anything they wish. It is not a basic chatbot builder, but once you get hang of programming techniques and chatbot platform tools, Pandorabots has limitless possibilities. With the help of this platform, you can deploy your chatbot to any messaging application on mobile and website. The Bottom Line These are some of the chatbot platform tools that have emerged useful in the industry. You can make the best use of them to grow your business by interacting with your customers. Regardless of your purpose, you must always evaluate the pros and cons of every chatbot tool before you choose one to build your own chatbot. A website is your most powerful weapon for business marketing. It gives your information to prospective clients and helps convert visitors to customers. Do you know that 81% users do not choose the business with poor or old-school websites? And 39% would rethink before they take your services if your website is not user-friendly or looks stale. With the evolving trends in the market, even the newest ideas get boring soon and require revamping every now and then. Similarly, a website needs an upgrade when it starts to appear dull. There are no thumb rules that can determine your website needs a redesign. But a few major signs can certainly help. Let’s take a look. 1. Website is Slow No one likes to wait for the web page to load. This is the point where the site visitor loses interest and closes the page. As a business owner, your aim for the loading time should be 5 seconds. Slow loading can have multiple reasons such as heavy unoptimized videos and images, overloaded plugins, bad themes, unpowered hosting, and more. This calls for a redesign of your website. It will not only give your website a fresh and professional look, it will also increase website conversion with faster page loads. Moreover, a redesign is your most cost-effective option to fix critical issues in the website. 2. Higher Bounce Rate Bounce rate is a critical part of a website. You invest your time, energy, and resources into your business, but when your audience visits the homepage, they immediately get turned off. It’s an ominous sign that can lead to losing out on great leads and potential clients. A bounce rate is a sign that you are doing something wrong and you have to figure out the underlying problem. It may be your navigation, the speed, content, or the overall website. On average, the bounce rate between 40% – 60% is normal, although it may not be the same for every industry. The safe way to fix the bounce rate issue is by redesigning your website. Google Analytics helps you check your website’s bounce rate. If it is high, follow the tips to decrease the rate. The last resort is surely a website redesign. 3. Poor Traffic and Sales Website is built with a purpose of generating traffic and if it fails to do that, it is a problem. If you have been observing great dip in the leads and traffic for some time, it shows that your visitors do not find your website interesting enough to stay longer. Conversion is already a difficult process and a bad website adds to the problem. To provide great experience to your users, you must ensure easy navigation, engaging content, effective call-to-action, and more. You can easily achieve all this with a redesign to upgrade the overall website and bring it back to the competitive market. 4. Old Website Old is gold. But not when it comes to a business website. An old website shows that your business is boring and doesn’t have much to offer. There is no set expiration date for a website but if you have used a website for three to five years, then you must seek a redesign. It is because technology changes quickly and you need to be at the top of your game by using the best search engine optimization (SEO) strategies and more. So, do your business a favor and turn your three- to five-year-old website into something that can positively impact your business’s growth. 5. No Search Results Half of the battle for your website is the correct search engine optimization. Creating content that has all the necessary keywords is important for your website to rank high on search results. It is a solid foundation that a website must have; if not, everything automatically goes to waste. If your website ranks low or doesn’t rank at all on the search engines such as Google and Bing, it reflects poorly on your business. So, you need to put efforts in you search engine ranking and stay on page 1 of search results — all by redesigning your website. 6. Change in Business If your business has changed and you no longer offer the services available on your website, you must redesign your website as soon as possible. Naturally, businesses change with time. You introduce new products or discontinue a few. At times, your vision entirely changes. Factors like these must not be displayed on your website if you no longer benefit from them. A website is the soul of your business and it should only show what you presently offer to help boost the sales. In such cases, redesigning the business website is the only way to got about it and it must not be delayed. 7. Incomplete Information Why do people visit websites? To learn more about the business. If your website doesn’t have updated information, why would your audience want to visit the site in the first place? If your current prospects can’t easily find the information they require, they won’t return to the site. This is where redesigning comes useful. Redesign your website with necessary details of your business with recent trends and extraordinary UX; you will experience visitors spending more time on your website. 8. Better Competitor Website It is necessary to keep an eye on your competitors. It will inspire you to do better and use your resources correctly. If you check your competitor’s website and you find them doing something that makes your website seem outdated, it is a sign that your website may need revamping. While its true that you should learn from their techniques, it is equally important to use your mind and not blindly follow them. The Bottom Line Is it time to revamp your website? Well, if you consistently find these signs in your website, it indeed is time you went for its much-needed overhaul. It is important to understand that website redesigning not only offers long-term benefits, but it also helps you save cost in many ways. Android is the most used mobile operating system all around the world. With a massive following, Android is the subject of many myths and misconceptions about its functions, complexities, performance, life, security, and more. Unfortunately, many people believe them to be true. These myths have existed for a long time, causing prospective Android buyers to look for other huge rival: iOS Whether you are a regular Android user or have just started taking interest in its gadgets, you must learn about some of the myths about Android and we are here to bust them for you. So, let’s get started. 1. Malware Infected The existence of critical vulnerability is one of the oldest myths about Android devices. The critics claim that iPhone is safe from malware, whereas Android is its hub. Malware exists in Android as in any other operating platform and all of them need to be protected against these risks. The average user needs to be careful about catching malware on either of the platforms. If you only download applications from Google Play Store and avoid third-party sources, you are already on the right path to safety. All you need is a bit of common sense to avoid malware. How? Think twice before clicking in-app ads, suspicious links, and unknown email attachments while browsing. 2. Performance Issues Android is often compared to iOS and one of the persistent myths about Android is that it has more performance issues than an iOS device. The operating system itself and its apps are rumored to suffer from big issues that impact performance. True, in the early days of its development, Android devices used to lag and crash frequently; this issue was also reported in other operating platforms. Users fail to understand that there are several other factors that contribute to the performance problems as well, such as underpowered hardware, badly optimized third-party apps, software’s excessive manufacturer customization, and more. Not just Android, these problems occur in any other mobile operating platform that needs up-to-date devices and secure apps to prevent it from happening. 3. Poor Apps Many people say that Android always gets bad apps. This is true that iOS gets access to some of the apps right after they launch, but that doesn’t indicate that Android stays deprived of them or receives all the worthless apps. In fact, many developers prefer creating applications for Android or the Google platform for its big number of users. With technological advancement, apps arrive on both platforms at the same time and are updated on the same schedules. Moreover, if an app is released on iOS first and on Android later, the gap between the two intervals is negligible to cause any problem. It is important to understand that the nature of the two platforms, their programming languages, operating systems, and more are very different to be compared. Therefore, assuming that Android releases all the bad apps because developers prioritize iOS over Android is untrue and users should not believe that. 4. Complicated to Use Like many other myths, Android haters portray that it’s a complicated system that can only be used by a computer genius. This is not even close to reality. Every system seems difficult to understand in the beginning. However, the modern versions of Android incorporate a set of guidelines to help you through getting your device online and adding your accounts. It allows you to use the device normally for calls, texts, social media, photography, browsing, and more. Some people find the Settings menu of Android devices a bit confusing, but it is the same for iOS as well. For someone who has never used Android, it can be a little overwhelming at first. However, with experience, users learn their ropes around new devices and platforms, for Android as well as iOS. 5. Same Looks on Every Device One of the misconceptions surrounding Android devices is that they appear the same on every smartphone. This is not true because Android has several series of smartphones running on the same platform. And since they are open source and customizable, it can look different on every phone, especially if you are comparing the newer phones with older ones. Moreover, not every Android device runs the same version of the operating system, which indicates that it cannot look the same on every device. So, if the last Android smartphone you used a few years ago was an older version, there are strong chances that the new Android devices will show you a considerable difference. This is not the case with Android only; even if you use an old iOS three to four years ago, chances are that you won’t like it now. Additionally, manufacturers are paying attention to the usability of software programs. This means that new smartphones will not have the same old look with slow-loading animations and lagging applications. 6. Android is Insecure The myth that it is an insecure operating platform has been surrounding Android devices for a long time. However, it was true only in its initial iterations. Now, Google has taken serious measures to make it a better platform so that the myth doesn’t hold true any more. Google has introduced two moves to keep a check on security: Android security updates and the integrated Play Store App check. As a user, it is your responsibility to be careful of your browsing conduct, unverified or unreliable software programs, and malicious links. The Bottom Line You will always find a myth about one thing or another. What you need to understand is that you cannot believe every review you hear; most of them come from biased opinions that are meant to misguide you. Just because a few people have had a bad experience using Android, doesn’t make it a bad choice for you. Create your own experience and then form an opinion. Moreover, the problems that a user faces on Android, may also come across on other operating platforms. iOS is the most popular mobile operating platform. From iPhones, iPads, and MacBooks, to Apple watch, IOS products have gained worldwide recognition for their smooth performance, classy designs, and user-friendliness. Apart from its many advantages, iOS, like many other platforms, is plagued with myths and misunderstandings that people assume to be real. These are the myths that contribute to their customer base being thrown off. So, we're here to dispel some popular iOS myths that need to be dispelled right away. You've arrived at the perfect place if you're looking to buy an Apple product shortly. Let's get started. 1. Apple Tracks Your Location In early 2011, a rumor regarding iOS started circulating that it uses iPhone to track people’s location without their knowledge. The rumor was spread by some tech researchers who claimed that they had found tracking codes in Apple iOS. This myth stayed in the tech industry for a while until Apple took the matter into its hands and released a statement, denying the claims and admitting that they use data, with the aim of providing iPhone users a better traffic service. Despite the clarification, some people still believe in this myth to date. 2. Insecure Touch ID It is true that Touch ID has some drawbacks and they are present in every mobile operating platform. It is possible that it can be exploited but in practical circumstances, the chances of its occurrence are highly unlikely. Why? Because it is not a spy novel and hacking a Touch ID is definitely not worth it. The bottom line: the Touch ID is as secure as other biometric authentication methods. Touch ID doesn’t make your personal information easy to access. Like many other mobile platforms, iOS does have some vulnerabilities, but Touch ID is surely not one. 3. iOS Apps Have No Future It is true that Android applications are being developed abundantly all around the world. They sure have given a tough to iOS applications. However, this doesn’t indicate that iOS applications have no future. Nowadays, apps are becoming advanced and both platforms share some common apps as well. The truth is whichever app caters to the larger audience is going to stay no matter the platform it is associated with. Therefore, believing that iOS apps are not going to last is a myth that needs to be dumped right now. 4. Immune to Malware Many users believe that iOS is a closed system, so it is impossible to catch malware on an iOS device. Even though every app that Apple launches and lists in App Store is reviewed by the company itself; however, it is possible that with infected apps, your phone’s security can be compromised. Such events are possible in iOS just like in any other mobile operating platform. The security is in your hands. What can you do about it? It is simple: never connect to the Wi-Fi networks in a public place. It is one of the factors you must be extremely careful of. Even if you are connecting the Wi-Fi you have previously used, a hacker could use that and hack your personal information. Whether you are using an iOS or an Android device, you must pay attention to this security concern at all times. 5. iOS is Going Out of Business Since the inception of iOS devices, the myth about them going out of the business has been running in the industry. Unfortunately, according to some tech journalists, Apple is a step away from bankruptcy with no significant proof to support the claim. Apple is a tech giant that has its products used all over the world, gaining maximum profit. So, the misconception about its shutdown doesn’t make sense. These rumors surface from time to time when iOS launches a new phone or comes up with a software update. Critics have also stated that Apple will soon be pushed out of the computer hardware business. 6. Apple Products Aren’t Costly People who are aware of modern gadgets and tech trends very well know that iOS product are costly. Even if you come up with hundred justifications, the fact about its hiking price can’t be denied. There is no doubt that Apple products are superior with their manufacture, designs, software programs, touch-screen magic, minimalistic perfection, and more which add to the [REDACTED_SECRET] price of its products in the market. The interesting bit is people are also willing to invest the desired amount for the superior quality of iOS for the magnificent user experience. However, Apple is not a brand for rich people only. The brand-new iOS products may cost you a lot, but the slightly older versions fall into the same category of price as they do in any other mobile operating platform. 7. iPhone is Better than Android This is the most common belief that once you start using iOS devices, there is no going back. However, it is not true as many people keep switching from Apple to Android. It entirely depends upon the preference and the style of a user. You can use both and decide which is the right pick for you. Certainly, iOS has strong loyalty associated with the name, but it doesn’t mean that people cannot find its products suitable for their needs. The Bottom Line The myths listed above clearly show when a company has a big name in the industry, myths and misconceptions become part and parcel of its identity. Like many other successful operating platforms, iOS is a myth magnet. As a user, it is your responsibility to do your research and learn the reality of every myth before you decide to believe it. Staying productive is difficult, especially when you are surrounded by distractions that kill your productivity. To perform well in our respective jobs, we all need a way to be productive and organized. However, productivity is different for every individual. For some, it is a good brainstorming session and for others, it is completing the to-do task before day end. No matter what it means to you, we all need to be focused to maintain productivity in all kinds of projects. This is why we have a list of the best productivity apps to help you become organized and excel more in your respective field. Let’s take a look. 1. Forest Forest is the best-suited app for people who have a hard time maintaining their focus. If you easily get distracted, you must try Forest. What does this app do? As you begin your task, the app plants a seed and starts the timer. When you continue working, your seed grows into a tree. However, if you leave the app for whatever reason, the tree immediately dies down. If you stick to the timer, the app keeps growing the plants that form an entire tree. This idea motivates people to keep everything aside and focus on their tasks. You can also benefit your ecosystem using this app. How? Forest has collaborated with a non-profit organization, Trees for the Future. So, every time you plant a seed in the app, the organization plants a real tree. 2. Todoist A to-do list is the best way to keep your schedule and deadlines aligned. Therefore, you need an app that organizes all your daily to-do lists. Todoist is a perfect task management app that helps you set due dates, track progress, and collaborate on different projects with other people. Moreover, it also has a location-based reminder that reminds you to perform tasks you have been assigned in different places. Todoist is the best and an upgraded version of a traditional to-do list and it is available on iOS, Windows Desktop as well as Android platforms. 3. Calendly With tight schedules, does your inbox get flooded with back-and-forth emails? Calendly is the app for you. With meetings left, right, and center, all you need is an app that can sync your calendar to the preferred task and that’s what Calendly does for you. All you have to do is create an account and you can sync time slots for when you are available, allowing you to manage your schedule. You can also share your meeting schedule with other people using your Calendly link to let them choose the best time slot with you. Get rid of back-and-forth schedule changes, meeting cancellations, and email bombardment, and download Calendly. Calendly helps you organize your schedule and enhance your productivity. The app is available for Android and iOS only. 4. Trello Trello is a well-known project management app used in many organizations for its user-friendly features meant for collaborative teams. The tasks on this app are categorized into different status options such as “to-do”, “going”, and “done”. Trello works best for group projects, which is why it is best suited for group projects and office use. It assigns an individual task to group members with the designated deadlines and requirements. The app has a dashboard that helps you create and manage the list of cards that have to-do lists. Allowing teammates to coordinate on a task’s progress, the app has a real-time messenger to discuss task-related queries. The team members can join in for free from any part of the world. Moreover, you can also invite other people from across the globe, such as your clients, to keep them in the loop of the task’s progress. 5. Evernote If you brainstorm or write down every point of the meeting, Evernote can be very helpful for your productivity. It is a famous note organizer that helps you arrange all your ideas in one place. Also, not just textual information, if you have photos, audio, drawings, PDFs, or even digital sketches, you can use them easily as they are instantly searchable. This app is not only helpful for notes on one device; it can help you sync notes from different devices in one place to access on the go. Evernote is a free app and can be used on Android and iOS operating platforms. 6. Freedom There is no bigger distraction than social media. With a single tap, it takes you to a virtual world and gives your productivity a backseat and this is exactly what you don’t want. Freedom is the app for everyone who can’t keep their hands off of social media sites, especially students preparing for their exams. It helps block all distracting websites and apps for your task-assigned time. You can customize your list of sites and apps and block them for some time. And if social media blockage is not enough to boost your productivity, you may also block the entire access to the Internet to keep the focus on your task only. Freedom is a free app available on iOS and Android. 7. Be Focused Everyone has their own way of staying productive. If you are one of those who need short breaks to keep the mind running, Be Focused is the right app for you. It involves breaking your day into a 25-minute work slot where your entire focus is on the project you are working on. The slot is followed by a 5-minutes break to help you relax your mind. You can use your interval durations for anything you wish. By the end of the day, the app gives you the tracking progress and goals for the day or the week. Be Focused is a free app and it can be easily accessed by iOS and Android users. The Bottom Line These productivity apps have shown great results as they serve as a platform to keep your focus intact. It is true that productivity is personal and works differently for everybody, but enlisting support from external sites and apps that match your work style only helps you achieve bigger goals. With many different tools and apps, if you find even one that works for you, you must definitely incorporate it into your work management practices. Building duplicates of a website has become a common practice for website developers. However, adding a unique feature to the replica website is essential because not only does it add value to your business, but it also helps your new site stand out. Online advertisement websites for buying or selling purposes such as OLX, Craigslist, Wallapop, and more are very commonly used. In addition to that, more the apps like Craigslist are built, adding competition to the market to generate revenue. If you wish to make an app like Craigslist in 2022, you need to understand the basics of this website first. So, let’s begin with it. What is Craigslist? Craigslist is an American classified advertisement website that has specified sections for wanted items or services, jobs, housing, gigs, resumes, community services, and discussion forums. Craigslist was founded by Craig Newmark in 1995 with the idea of providing an email distribution list to his friends. In 1996, it expanded into a web-based service with a wide range of classified categories. As they got successful, the office started expanding to the cities of the USA and Canada in the 2000s. Fast forward to the present, Craigslist now covers 70 countries. To date, Craigslist has over 60 million users across 70 countries who post ads for services, purchases of property, events, jobs, and more. The discussion forum is a platform that allows users to share their queries and experience of using the website. Craigslist is considered a low-key site as compared to its competitors, yet it receives over 200 million users posting monthly for different reasons. Many other platforms try to build an app like Craigslist. However, this app has some unique features that can’t be found in others. Some of them include 1. Strong Community No matter how many platforms develop an app like Craigslist, they can’t compete with the huge community this app has created in these 25 years. The discussion forum helped the community interact, coordinate, and grow on legal issues, job markets, computers, selling items, and more. 2. Easy Interface For the longest time, we have used newspapers to publish ads or search for them until technology took over. To give Craigslist the same traditional touch, its interface looks like a newspaper with several ads. Some people do not like this design and they find it dull and outdated. However, Craigslist believes in keeping a minimalistic and easy interface. The text-driven ad pages help the website load quickly and reduce bounce rate. 3. Free Advertisements Craigslist has a wide variety of ads from all categories and most of them are free or available at cheap rates. Only some categories such as rental apartments, job hunts, and a few more, cost a small amount of money that is not too heavy on the users’ pockets. 4. Ads Variety The best part about Craigslist is the diverse range of ads. It is not niche-specific which allows all types of people to use it. From buying a book to getting your own property, the app caters to everyone. The fact that 80 million ads are posted every month on Craigslist speaks volumes of its diversity. If you wish to create an app like Craigslist, make sure that the ad category is vast. 5. No Spams Craigslist uses an automated flagging system to keep the spammers away from bombarding the website with unnecessary spam ads. Moreover, the flagging system can also remove inappropriate ads posted on the website to keep it a safe space for all users. How to Make an App like Craigslist? If you want to build an app like Craigslist, there are thing some of the factors that you must consider such as Features Business model Monetization approach Development Procedure 1. Features If you want to make a Craigslist-inspired app, you may add the features that enhance your website including · Communication Medium You must integrate a messaging platform to make it easier for your users to interact with buyers and sellers and share their experiences. A communication channel helps them take reviews from others allowing you to take feedback before making a final call. · Flag Ads Your users must have access to a flagging ads method that they can use every time they suspect a post to be spam, inappropriate, or fraud. This will instill a sense of security in your users that they can easily block anything that makes them uncomfortable. · Review and Rating Feature You must add a review and rating option if you are planning to make an app like Craigslist. It will allow buyers and sellers to rate each other, helping the new users know their best options based on ratings and reviews. · Mobile Application Do not keep your platform restricted to a website only, create a mobile app that people can use on the go any time they want. Interaction via mobile is easier than compared to browsers; so, do not skip on the mobile application of your new Craigslist-inspired site. · Cross-Platform App Your website should not be confined to one operating platform only. Make sure that it is compatible with all the devices. It will expand your list of users using iOS, Windows, or Android platforms. · Account Verification Add the feature of account verification to your website. Allow users to register or sign up using their social media or mobile number. Ensure safety by verifying their number or account to avoid spam or fake identity issues. 2. Business Model You have a list of four business models to choose from for your app · Freemium Classified Freemium bases business model helps you post free classified ads, giving you the chance to earn from banner advertising. The model is useful for people looking to post ads for free and build a customer base. · Niche Classified For a specific niche, this is the right business model. For example, job, property purchase, fashion, and more are the specific niche for which you can create listings to attract people looking for the particular category of services. · Fixed Classified Big classified ads use a Fixed Classified business model. With the help of this, you can charge users a specific rate based on the ads they wish to post on your website. For more ad boosting, you can offer them packages or discounts. This model doesn’t guarantee a stable revenue but it can work well for you to gain customers. · All-in-one Classified If you want a generic business model to gain a large customer base, you should opt for an all-in-one classified to build an app like Craigslist. It means that your model is a hybrid that contains features of all the niches such as freemium, niche, and fixed. 3. Monetization Approach Craigslist is a non-profit platform that earns specifically through paid ads. However, as a new platform, this may not be a suitable option for you. Therefore, you need a monetization model to help you gain profit. · Subscription This monetization model is best suited for niche-specific websites and businesses that need to post frequently. All you need to do is charge a monthly or yearly fee for your website from the advertisers. But before you ask them to subscribe, make sure they have had a free trial. · Pay Per Post It is a straightforward method that requires advertisers to pay for every post. · Membership Offer your users a membership option if they wish to avail of premium services. It gives your customers extra features than the normal users of your platform. · Sponsored Ads Paid advertisements are also an essential part of any business, especially in the initial days. You can give enterprises an opportunity to advertise their ads in return for a designated payment if you want to develop an app like Craigslist. 4. Development Procedure In order to make an app like Craigslist, you have to choose the development process you would like to opt for. For this, you have two options: · Open Source Open source is easy for you as it is a platform like WordPress where you do not have to create a website from the scratch. You have a set of available designs, templates, features, and plugins to choose from. All you have to do is just drag and drop your preferred choices. However, it comes with its limitations such as no support, scalability issues, no custom theme, and more. · Custom-developed Custom development is best for a classified website. It gives you different features, functionalities, and designs to acquire your Craigslist clone including the script for its development. The best part is that you will have control over the data of your website and will be getting the development team’s support if you are stuck at any point. However, it can be a little costly and time-consuming but all will be worth it when you see the results. The Bottom Line If you want to build an app like Craigslist, it is very important that you understand the purpose of your platform before you jump onto this bandwagon. You can make your own online marketplace and excel at your e-commerce and advertising if you have good knowledge of its basics. This market offers genuine buyers, good profits, and revenue if you are following the right practices to develop an app like Craigslist. This is the era of technology and entrepreneurs, where IT professionals and IT-based services are in high demand across the industry. As a budding entrepreneur, if you are looking for options to capitalize on your earnings and profit, you must consider establishing the best IT company in Pakistan. IT businesses are boosted given that it is an ever-thriving industry driven by competition and IT professionals that help generate profit. According to the statistics, global IT spending will increase by 6.2% in the future. If you are an IT entrepreneur, you need a guide to learn the ropes of starting your own IT business and making it the leading IT company in Pakistan. So, here we have a few guidelines that can help you with starting your own IT-based startup. 1. Choose your Services When you decide to start your own IT company, you must do some thorough homework beforehand including the research about the services your IT company will offer. Your services are your selling points as they attract your potential clients. Therefore, you must have a good understanding of your company’s offerings. You have the leading IT companies in Pakistan to learn what your target market wants which will help you decide your offerings better. Some of the services you can offer are tech support, IT budgeting, risk assessments, network design and installation, cyber security, mobile app development, remote admin management, game development, and the list goes on. 2. What’s Your Business Structure? Business structure is one of the integral parts of starting your business especially when you are developing an IT service-based company. Most of the time, small IT companies start from a sole proprietorship, a limited liability company (LLC), or a partnership. You have to plan your business structure beforehand because it will impact your taxes, liabilities, and the paperwork your business requires. In the case of single-person companies, a sole proprietorship is the right choice. However, forming an LLC can be a little expensive and your state could take some time to get the paperwork started. You may also take help from a professional accountant to assist you in understanding the sense of your current state and the future of your business. 3. Sufficient Fundings What is more important than starting a business? It is to get the grounds of your business secure with certain costs that may come unexpectedly to you. Your business has to be secure with the funding for which you can raise money from venture capital firms. In that case, you will need a venture firm or leading investors that are specifically dedicated to IT service businesses. A venture capitalist requires a pitch that explains why your business needs investment and what you return to offer them. You can also research business grants funded by third-party companies. Other funding sources may also include low-interest credit cards. 4. Do You Have a Business Plan? To establish the best IT company in Pakistan, you must have a business plan. A business plan consists of the company’s current state and the pathway for its future growth. It is fine to not have a business plan initially but if you want to acquire business funding, you need to create one that supports your ideas and roadmap for your future. For beginners, professional templates for business templates are easily available. Old-school and traditional business plans don’t work anymore, you need the one that becomes an attractive pitch to the investors. Typically, a business plan consists of the following: Funding sources Budget Company summary Hiring strategy Market analysis Your Unique Selling Points Business structure 5. Basic Business Budget In order to start any business, you must have at least some amount of money to invest. Similarly, your IT-based company also requires a basic budget. For this, you need to do a lot of homework on the upfront costs that help your IT business save money and time. So, before you set your business’s grounds, develop a small and a simple budget, to begin with. How can you do it? You must calculate the cost of every expense your business may have inclusive of loans, rent, licenses, host websites, applications, and more. Make an estimated amount of what you expect as revenue. If you have already started earning something out of it, you can use that amount as a base to predict future revenue. Earning profit takes time, but as an IT company in Pakistan, you must monitor your profit margin which allows you to see if you are charging enough for your services. 6. Business License You can’t run a business if you do not have a business license. How can you get it? Well, you have to formally apply for this. To apply for a business license, you must submit the basic documents of your business including the number of business owners, business names, business owner name, contact information, employer identification number (EIN), business type, business address, and more. The fees for a business license depend on the country your business is located in. Some states charge the filing or processing fee. Once you receive your business license you must check its validity date because in some countries, business owners have to reapply after every few years. 7. Get a Workplace The best and the most convenient part about having your own IT based company is choosing where you work from. You can opt for a traditional office but if you are tight on budget, you can start from a home office. Initially, every company starts from home. With respect to the budget of your office location, you can decide the working style, plans, recruitment, and client meetings. If you rent out an office space, you will need property insurance to have protection against damage or theft. The Bottom Line Starting the best IT company in Pakistan of your own is a profitable business decision. You must be ready to take risks because it is a long road with pitfalls. Startups flourish and grow big if they have the right action plan; only then can they turn into successful, money-making enterprises. We all have been in a situation where we are looking for the best search results on Google but all we get are random pages with mediocre information stuffed with keywords. It is very annoying especially when you have to run solid research on a particular topic, right? Lately, we have seen that Google searches are not helpful or authentic because it has become easier to rank a page if you pay a good amount and have strong SEO services in the backend. This works badly for the legitimacy of Google, more so, when it is considered the encyclopedia of everything. Optimizing your content for a good search ranking is nothing wrong but over-optimizing it neither helps the business page nor the readers. Amidst the whole over-optimization fiasco, Google “Helpful Content Update” came in as fresh and the most-anticipated action. But what is the new Helpful Content Update? What does it do? Let’s talk about it What is Google’s Helpful Content Update? The Helpful Content Update is one of the wisest decisions Google has taken as a search engine. It is the method of diversifying the results for the readers and writers. According to Google, it will help reveal more genuine and helpful content written for people. It will improve the overall quality of the ranking page and give its users a satisfying experience. The update is set to launch in the next week for English searches and aims to filter out the genuine content from the content written typically for SEO purposes. Many researchers said that this is the reward Google has for its readers to demote the type of content that shows the results of high-end SEO services. The update will help Google evaluate the quality of specific content and also identify how it helps the overall website. Google has made it very clear that the soon-to-launch update will not be validating the best methods of SEO because it is aware that SEO services are helpful when they are used for people-first content. The update solely targets the systems that have gamed their way up to the search results containing no helpful information or have a merit to be on the top. As for the SEO service providers who believed that this will be a penalty, the search engine clarified that the update is not a punishment for a badly performed SEO but a “signal” like many other ranking signals of the search engine. However, if your website is impacted by the signal, you may as well feel like it’s a penalty and try to improve. How to Check your Content for This Update? Google is considerate about the content that may get affected by the update when it is launched. Therefore, for content producers and SEO service providers, it has given a list of evaluation criteria so that their piece of content doesn’t get affected by the new signal. 1. Search Engine First Content SEO is the best ranking activity only when it is applied to people-first content and completely covers Google’s SEO guide. However, when the content is produced primarily for ranking purposes and has no meaningful substance, that’s when you know that the content will be the first target of the new Helpful Content Update. So, what you need to do is say goodbye to your search engine-first approach and reevaluate how your content comes across your site. 2. Plenty of Content In case you are producing heaps of content with the hope that some might perform well, let me tell you it is the wrong strategy. Quantity never matters, quality does. One good quality content is better than hundreds of mediocre ones. A chain of low-quality content will give your website no benefit. 3. Self-Assess There is no better judge for your content than yourself. So, ask yourself a few questions. What do you think of your write-up? Does it seem up to the mark to you? Does it have answers and solutions to your target audience’s problems? Does your content satisfy your readers so that they don’t have to check other pages? Is it your best work or do you write it just for the sake of a certain word count to complete SEO service providers’ demands? 4. People-First Content People-first content is written with the focus of developing it for the readers. It is something that helps them, gives them a solution or is based on putting their need first. It means instead of prioritizing your business page, you are choosing the people reading the content and instead of bad SEO services, you are using the right guidelines. If you want your piece of content to not be impacted by the Helpful Content Update, you have to create audience-oriented content. Do you think after reading your content people will feel satisfied? Will the readers feel like they have learned enough about the said topic? 5. Summarized Content It is fine to research the given topic. Everyone does that. But, when you only summarize other’s content without making an effort of adding value, that is when it looks like a chunk of some mediocre information right off the random pages. To make your content seem more genuine, you must try to add a personal touch; something that your audience can relate to. The summary of everything present on the internet should not be your strategy. Types of Content to be Affected by The Update Google Helpful Content Update will not be targeted to any particular niche. It is a general algorithm for all English search results. However, some of the types of content that can have a larger impact on the update include Tech-based Online educational pages Arts Entertainment pages Online shopping If you are wondering why these pages will be more affected than the rest, you have to understand that these topics have been written on several search engines over and over again for years. So, the chances of redundancy are more here than in others. Will The Update Have an Impact on Organic SEO? It has been clarified many times that Google Helpful Content Update is not an attack but an action to promote genuine content. If your page is built with the idea to benefit the audience and not just the ranking, you have a good chance of not getting affected by it. It is important to understand that the Helpful Content Update works sitewide instead of checking individual pages or sections. If the Google crawler spots too much unhelpful and meaning less content, it will have a drastic impact on the search engine rankings no matter how important that part of the content is for the website. This implies that it will eventually have an effect on the organic SEO services. Therefore, it is suggested that if you are aware that you have a good quantity of useless content on your website, either rewrite it or remove it before it damages your ranking altogether. What to Do If the Update Impacts Your Ranking? Google will soon launch the Helpful Content Update; so, it will not impact your search results immediately. However, if it happens to you in the future, the first thing you need to do is keep calm. You will need to come up with a solution, not a reaction. If you panic and react too much, you may cause more damage. What you can do is collect all your data and analyze it. Read everything to understand what needs to be updated. Google suggests that if an update hits you, remove the useless or unnecessary content from your website, it may help the ranking. Moreover, you can try to add more value by any means; take your time, it won’t happen overnight. What you should understand about this update is that once it classifies your site as the one that builds content typically for search engine ranking, the sitewide signal will affect the rest of the content on your website too. So, if you have a big quantity on your website with bad SEO, you will experience a considerable decline in traffic in the next few months. Hence, updating and removal of unnecessary content is the only option for recovery for you. However, if your site gets hit by the update, it may take several months to recover. The Bottom Line It is important to understand that Helpful Content Update is not targeted to the SEO Company in Pakistan or it’s not a punishment for anyone. More so, it is an algorithm that will run automatically to help give the due recognition and ranking to the content that deserves to be on the top. So, keep calm, the update is not launched yet meaning that you still have a lot of time to enhance your website. In case you were already planning on updating your business page content, there is no better time to do that than now. All you need to do is focus on the quality, produce people-first content, and take the help from the best SEO service provider following the best SEO practices. In this era of technology and smartphones, as a startup, the best way to get through to your customers and clients is via a mobile app. In a world where everything is just a tap away, it gets difficult for startups to make their mark in the industry without having a competitive edge. For this, they need to push their boundaries to facilitate their clients and stand out among their competitors with the help of digitalization. These days, online mobile apps have become something we can rely on. From your daily tasks to your household chores, or your drive to work is dependent on technology. Dependence on technology is a sign that tech-based businesses have to put in more effort to build their name. Mobile application development is a good option especially when there is an app for everything around us. For this, you need a solid mobile app that engages your users and makes your startup a strong brand. So, How Can You Do It? We will give a list of guidelines for you to embark on your journey of mobile application development. Let’s get started. 1. Have a Clear Idea Before you do anything, the first thing you must know is to have a clear understanding of what you want in your final product. You can use as many resources as you want but for a top-notch mobile app, if you are not sure what you want from it, your efforts are likely to go in vain. Sit. List down your requirements, and create a draft of the functionalities and features you want in your app. It will not only help you remember everything; it will also help your development team understand your vision to achieve the target and create the best mobile app. You can list down the core factors of your app and how it can serve your audience. 2. Research is the Key You may have heard it a million times already but here are we reiterating that research is the most essential part of the process. You may believe that you have overdosed your project with excessive research; but honestly, it is never enough. You can do everything to make the finest mobile application but as a developer, if you have not done a sufficient amount of research, you are lacking the crucial part of it. Mobile app development is a vast field, so, doing just the basics will not give you a competitive advantage. Do extensive research about who you are, what you want, how you want to be known in the industry if you want to scale up the business, and many more. Research is not a one-off thing, it has to be conducted throughout the process - every step of the way. 3. Team Building You are nothing without a strong workforce. Your team plays a huge role in whatever you want to do; your final app will reflect your teamwork. Bad teams make projects suffer and this is the reason you must build the right team. Get skillful people on board who have the right knowledge of development projects and who can bring different aspects of innovation as well. In case you plan to outsource the project, make sure that you are working with a reputed and high-end service provider who can smoothly work with your core team. You must not initiate the process of development until you know you have a great team onboard. Start only when you are sure that your team has your back. 4. Understanding Competitors The most important part of the extensive research is learning about your competitors. Play Store and App Store are already flooding with applications with different motives. When you plan to launch an app, you should have a good idea of the pre-existing apps. What you have to do is research each of those apps and understand your competition in the market. Analyze your competitors – their strengths, their weaknesses, their niche, and everything. This is the practice that will help you determine what you need to focus on, what your audience likes or dislikes, and what can help you stand out. 5. Strategize Better Your company’s strategy has a big impact on everything you do. It comprises your vision, your goal, your mission, your products, and more. So, when you aim to develop a mobile application, you need to have an appropriate approach that can help your company and your product in the long run. Revise your previous strategies; if they are not effective anymore, it is time to come up with new ones. This may take more time than expected but it will give your start-up many long-term benefits. Take your time and strategize better. 6. Right Development Methods Mobile application development consists of many types of methods and choosing the right one for your app can be risky but equally important. The specifications of your mobile app depend on these methods. Therefore, you must be careful before you choose a particular method. 7. Data Security As a startup with an aim of building a mobile app, data security should be your major concern. Why? Because people with sick intentions are present everywhere and are ready to abuse your personal data from any application if it is not properly secured. What you must do to stay safe? You must take correct security measures to keep your users’ data secure before you launch the app. The privacy policies, terms and conditions, non-disclosure agreements, and more must be taken seriously to prevent any mishap. One small security issue can be the end of your mobile app. So, better be safe than sorry. The Bottom Line Mobile apps can take your tech-based business one step ahead, only if you know the right way. Sometimes, even after doing everything, some apps fail to make a mark because mobile app development companies do not pay attention to the necessary details. As a startup, you can use multiple ways to help you take a solid start on a striking mobile app. Artificial Intelligence (AI) is ruling the planet as one of the most essential tools that uses the technology at its best and ramps up any business to generate profit. Tech giants such as Facebook and IBM have now started using AI as a source of income. Lately, AI has gradually made its way to every field, including e-commerce and retail businesses, especially when the world is moving towards online shopping and promoting e-commerce businesses. AI has not only helped increase the sales of e-commerce businesses; it has also made the stakeholders smarter when it comes to improving conversion rate and time reduction. There are many AI-based apps or tools that have paved the way for success for e-commerce businesses. Let’s take a look at some of them. Best Artificial Intelligence-Based Tools for Ecommerce Businesses 1. TUP Ecommerce TUP e-commerce is a tool that helps increase the conversion rate by combining a few segments such as machine learning models, on-screen user behavior, understanding the buying pattern of a user, and external stimuli. It works on all e-commerce platforms such as Shopify, Magento, WooCommerce, and the list goes on. It helps e-commerce online stores in two ways By optimizing revenue Persona identification TUP Ecommerce comes with a free trial without the requirement of a credit card payment, giving you a good chance to use it and decide if it suits the needs of your e-commerce business. 2. Wacul-AI Ecommerce businesses have many subsections that need professional attention and this is where Artificial intelligence comes in. For marketing purposes of your e-commerce business, Wacul-AI may turn out to be a fruitful app. These days many retail businesses are using this tool as it offers user-friendly solutions for all kinds of website’s needs. The tool gets access to your data, analyzes it, and gives detailed and simplified advice for future outcomes. The AI-driven tool helps transforms your marketing and inventory methods and it is perfect for all business sizes, especially mid+ e-commerce businesses. 3. Granify Granify is one of the best tools for e-commerce owners who are eyeing revenue optimization. Fast machine learning helps operate it in a straightforward manner that is necessary for the business. How does it work? Granify gathers 500 data facts per second of the user behavior when the potential customer interacts with the store. It then uses the data to match the behavioral ways of billions of other customers and makes an estimate of the chances of conversion. The app also notifies you when it identifies the conversion opportunity which results in an increase in revenue. The predictive analysis helps every customer with the product they are looking for. You can also inquire them about the pricing with the help of a contact form on the website. 4. Seventh Sense Artificial intelligence is also integrated into email marketing campaigns and for one such use, we have an AI-based app known as Seventh Sense. This app aids in enhancing the performance of your email marketing campaigns which can boost the engagement of your e-commerce business. The app is important because the email inbox is cluttered with irrelevant emails but with artificial intelligence, you can deliver emails and provide analytics. What does Seventh Sense do for you? It delivers an email to everyone during the best engagement time. Email throttling helps increase the delivery process. With frequency optimization, the email is sent to your potential customers at their required frequency. 4. PriSync As a business owner, you must be aware of what is going on in the market. You must know what your competitors are doing, the prices they offer, etc. For this purpose, we have PriSync that helps you grow sales and revenue by allowing you to find your competitors’ insights such as their strategies, their profit, the pricing range, and more. The app works efficiently on all platforms. You can enhance your functions by using this app, how? You may add or describe the products your online store sells. Add the products of your competitors as well. Once the products are added, you can check the price shift of the market on your dashboard. You may also find the price trends in the market and export the pricing list to create an excel sheet for future reference. Hence, with the help of pricing data, indexes, and recent trends you may strive for your growth in the market using updated and needful insights. 5. NeoWize NeoWize is a tool that helps you strategize better for your online store. With its data-driven and active functions, you can become the leading e-commerce business in the industry. The use of machine learning, neural networks, and artificial intelligence, helps seek modern and dynamic algorithms that help create better strategies. It helps you access the behavior of shoppers and transform the data into productive and actionable insights. It is best suited for all e-commerce business sizes. Using this tool, you can also personalize your store and enhance business wisdom and intelligence. 6. Phrasee Phrasee is an AI-based tool that boosts your e-commerce marketing agenda and optimizes business with email marketing campaigns. The tool optimizes the rates of email opens, click-throughs, and conversions using artificial intelligence. The tool allows you to reduce abandoned carts that affect the sales of online stores. You can optimize your brand language and connect with customers' journey that generates sales. You can optimize your brand persona, develop brand awareness, and create more engagement. This AI tool will help you decrease your bounce rate by sending your customers a customized email message at the serious point of their customer journey. By using Phrasee, you can access useful tools such as split test calculator, opportunity cost calculator, subject line analyzer, and more for on-time automation. The Bottom Line If used smartly, AI-based tools can help you significantly expand your business. However, the most important part is that you have to make sure that your e-commerce online store is hosted on scalable, fast, easy, and well-managed infrastructure. This specific property will help you focus better on the automation of your e-commerce business. Software development is a tough job and in order to deliver successful products and services, software developers must use automation testing tools as a part of effective software development practice. With a wide variety of open-source and commercial automation tools, it is difficult to identify which one is the right choice for your project. The impact of such tools can alter your project upside down. More so, selection of the suitable automation testing tools can also be tricky. So, which are the best tools you need as a software developer? We have curated a list of the top automation testing tool you need for your business. Let’s take a look. Top Automation Testing Tools 1. Tenjin Online Tenjin Online is a codeless and SaaS-based automation testing tool that has simple applications. The platform doesn’t need any critical configuration or skills due to the wide variety of features and functionalities it has. A software developer can test Android as well as iOS applications on this platform. Some of the best aspects of Tenjin Online are It does not need any technical knowledge for you to begin with It saves your testing time and cost up to 75% The functional and UI tests of this platform can be easily executed It is cost effective This test platform is fast, independent, and effective 2. Selenium Unarguably, Selenium is one of the most popular automation testing platforms among developers and QA engineers. Released in 2004, Selenium has greatly evolved and become the most used automation tool. This testing tool came up with many versions over the years containing main components such as Selenium IDE and Selenium WebDriver. It is an open-source automation tool that is used to automate across many operating systems such as Mac, Windows, Linux, and other browsers such as Chrome, Firefox, and other Headless Browsers. Selenium is compatible with every programming language and offers a big number of commands and options that you can manipulate. When combined with Python and Web Scraping, the platform has reportedly shown the best results. In order to use Selenium, you do not need to learn any programming skills or difficult scripts. Selenium provides playback features and record with its browser and add-on Selenium IDE. The best part is that Selenium is free and all over the world and it is one of the best professional investments. 3. Laravel Laravel is another popular automation testing tool. It is a web app framework that has simple and expressive syntax. This platform promotes simplified syntax and clean code. Software developers use it for many purposes such as quick error handling, using single commands, expressive coding, and more. Laravel gets testing support with PHPUnit having the predefined setup i.e. phpunit.xml file. This automation testing tool minimizes many security risks such as cross-site scripting, SQL injection, and cross-site request forgery. These are the reasons that make Laravel one of the best testing tools for developers. 4. Robotium Robotium is a software program that allows you to test Android-based applications. This framework introduces you to a variety of testing areas such as gray box UI testing, user acceptance testing, and system testing – all for native and hybrid android applications. With the help of Robotium, you can write strong and effective automatic black-box UI tests. It helps test case developers write functions, and systems, spanning android activities, and other user acceptance test scenarios. You can test your Android-based applications for free using Robotium. 5. Watir Watir is an acronym for Web Application Testing In Ruby. It is a Ruby library that allows you to do multiple things such as automation testing like clicking, filling forms, and more. It is an open-source web automation tool that is best for automated scripts that support IE on Windows. The scripting language of Watir is Ruby; however, it can be used to automate web applications created in any language. Watir has many features such as connection with the database, reading flat files, excel, and more. It is considered one of the best automation testing tools because it can also integrate with BDD tools such as Cucumber, RSpec, and more. Watir supports many Firefox and headless browser HTML Unit. Fun fact: Watir is pronounced as “water”. 6. Katalon Platform Alongside Selenium, another automation testing tool that is famous among the developers is Katalon Platform. It is one of the best open-source automation tools that supports web and mobile environments for end-to-end testing. It is a simple and easy-to-use platform and with that, it has some brilliant JIRA implementations as well. The platform smoothly integrates automated tests into the CI/CD ecosystem. With the use of Katalon TestOps, you get great insights and required centralized reports. The automation tool can be used to test desktop applications, mobile, web, and API. It uses Groovy as the scripting language and supports any external Java library. You can use this automation testing tool for a user-friendly interface for the management of codeless test automation and works smoothly with Continuous Integration systems such as TeamCity, Bamboo, and more. 7. Cucumber This cucumber may not give you health benefits but it offers many automated software testing advantages that support Behavior Driven Development (BDD). Initially, Cucumber was developed specifically for Ruby testing; however, it now supports many programming languages through many implementations such as Lua, JavaScript, PHP, and Java. It also has its own programming language known as Gherkin. Cucumber is best-suited for developers whose focus is on the end-user experience. The automation testing tool is free and its setup is quite simple as well. The interesting fact is that this tool has been downloaded more than 30 million times which makes it the most popular automation software testing tool for BDD. The Bottom Line Automation testing has become seamless with the help of a wide variety of automation testing tools. Before you choose one, you must understand your automation needs. So, research and analyze every automation tool; you can also have a trial period of the tools you find the best and select whichever works for you. Technology has grown beyond our imagination to the point that it has become a necessity. It is also fascinating to discover new innovations and how they have changed our lives forever. Thanks to ongoing technological advancements, the features of tech gadgets keep changing and surprising us. These gadgets are created by highly inventive individuals who are ready to push the envelope and try to introduce bigger and more unique things to the world by encouraging B2B technology partners. Many futuristic techs are still in the developing phase; however, the idea and the story behind their invention are what pique everyone’s interest. These tech gadgets are surely fun and broaden our horizons in ways we can barely imagine. Below is a list of some of the mind-blowing futuristic techs that are bound to change the world. 1. Handjet EBS-260 Handheld Printer The first one on the list is Handjet EBS-260 which is a handy printer that you can take anywhere and print everywhere. It is wonderful to discover how you can use this printer on metal, plastic, wood, cement, and anywhere you want. You can operate it with a simple touchscreen. Yes, it is that simple! Who needs the printing machine for photocopies when we will have Handjet EBS-260 in the future! This surely will be the kind of invention everyone would love! 2. Withings Body Scan Modern technology not only has an impact in the tech world but also in healthcare and fitness domains. Powered by behavioral science, the Withings Body Scan is set to make its way into the world. The device shows you the fat mass of the entire body, separately from every body part such as arms, legs, etc., along with your vascular age. The device helps bridge the gap between health and fitness and technology. It identifies your overall cardiovascular health and determines how well your blood vessels are working. You can create a record of your daily routine, lifestyle, and habits for more efficient results. Moreover, soon a new feature will be introduced in the device that will determine the results by logging in your food and sleep record. 3. PhoneSoap 3 UV Phone Sanitizer COVID-19 has changed the world. With surgical masks, hand sanitizers, and other accessories, it added one more thing to carry in your bag at all times: phone sanitizers because, sadly, our phones have germs too. If you are one of those who clean their phones a hundred times a day, this invention is just the right one for you! PhoneSoap 3 UV Phone Sanitizer is the best way to stay away from germs. Just place your phone inside the device, close the lid, and BAM! You get back a clean and germ-free phone. This futuristic UV phone sanitizer uses UV light technology that helps get rid of the germs on your phone. Moreover, this patented 360-degree disinfectant allows germicidal light in every nook and corner of the object, leaving behind other liquid cleaners and causing no damage. The best part is that it is not just for sanitizing your smartphone; you can insert your keys, wallets, and other relevant accessories to eliminate germs. 4. NordicTrack X32i Smart HD Touchscreen Treadmill If you despise a workout and need a push to help you get off the couch onto the treadmill, NordicTrack X32i Smart HD Touchscreen Treadmill can be very beneficial for you. This is the futuristic treadmill that contains a 32-inch LED display with which you can join live and motivational workout sessions. And in case you get bored of following the same workout routine every day, you have 16,000 other options to choose from, streaming the worldwide workouts on demand. Moreover, if you want to feel like you are working out outdoors, you can use Google Maps and select the location of your choosing from the comfort of your home. Do you want to get the touch of yoga in the Maldives? With NordicTrack X32i you got it! The strength training workouts, cardio sessions, HIIT, yoga, and meditation, you got it all and more with a relaxing, mindful series. 5. BMW Electrified Wingsuit As a kid, we all wanted a flying vehicle like Harry Potter, right? Well, BMW is here to fulfill this wish for you with the futuristic its Electrified Wingsuit. After a wide range of luxury cars, BMW has embodied a futuristic approach with the new tech. It is a carbon, fiber, and aluminum wingsuit powered by an electric propulsion system. This wingsuit has two 13cm carbon impellers that have an overall output of 15 kilowatts (kW). With this wingsuit, you can fly into the sky at the speed of 186mph. It has a compact and high-quality design that depicts perfection with the never-imagined experience. This suit is completely safe as it was tested in BMW’s horizontal and vertical wind tunnels. Who cares about traffic and commute time when you can get BMW Electrified Wingsuit? 6. townew Self-Changing Trash Can Cleaning trash cans is one of the most disliked chores there is, right? Well, not anymore. A new futuristic tech is the townew Self-Changing Trash Can that remove garbage itself. How? With an advanced mechanism inside and built-in sensors, the bin knows when the garbage is full and seals and changes it automatically. Taking it a step further, the self-changing trash can replace the bag on its own. It has a large capacity with a wide open top barrel, making it less messy for you. Given the hands-free operation, this trash can may be the best invention for germophobes. The Bottom Line Gadgets like the ones mentioned above continue to enthrall and amaze us. Innovation knows no bounds; it’s like an eye-opener that inspires us beyond measure, pushing us to think nothing is impossible in today’s technology-driven world. After all, it all boils down to an ingenious idea, leading you to move towards innovation and making inventive products. All one needs is sheer grit to push the limits and take risks that could help change our world for the better. Like other types of businesses, the world of e-commerce is also undergoing massive changes, making it crucial to adopt methods to stay ahead of the competition. A very critical component of this change is to understand the e-commerce customer journey, as organizations have come to terms with the significance of attracting and then retaining customers. Organizations are always on the lookout for ways to improve the customer experience and drive long-term success. To do so effectively, businesses need to take a robust strategy across the entire customer lifecycle, from discovery to post-purchase interaction. This blog post will delve into some crucial stages of a consumer journey in e-commerce. Stage 1: Awareness Imagine a vast ocean, your brand a lone island waiting to be exposed. This is the awareness stage, where potential customers first encounter your brand. It's sparked by various lighthouses: Social media: Eye-catching posts, influencer collaborations, and engaging content can cast a wide net. Search engines: SEO optimization ensures your island appears on relevant search maps. Online advertising: Targeted ads can lure customers in with irresistible offers. Email marketing: Personalized messages can remind past visitors of your existence. Stage 2: Consideration Once your island is spotted, curious pirates (potential customers) sail closer to investigate. This is the consideration stage, where they: Browse your website: A user-friendly interface and high-quality product pages are essential. Compare options: Reviews, comparisons, and clear product descriptions help them navigate. Seek information: Engaging blog posts, FAQs, and live chat support can calm their anxieties. Stage 3: Decision Through research and consideration, some pirates decide to anchor at your island. This is the decision stage, where: Price and value: Competitive pricing and clear value propositions are crucial anchors. Promotions and discounts: Special offers and coupons can entice them to stay. Trust and security: Secure payment gateways and transparent policies build trust. Stage 4: Purchase With a clear destination in mind, the pirates set sail for your checkout. This is the purchase stage, where: User-friendly checkout: A streamlined process with minimal steps keeps them on course. Multiple payment options: Cater to diverse preferences with various payment gateways. Order confirmation and tracking: Clear communication and real-time updates ensure a smooth voyage. Stage 5: Retention and Advocacy Happy pirates become loyal customers, returning for more treasures. This is the retention and advocacy stage, where: Post-purchase communication: Thank you emails, personalized recommendations, and loyalty programs foster relationships. Exceptional customer service: Prompt and helpful support builds trust and loyalty. Community building: Engaging social media interactions and exclusive offers create a sense of belonging. It’s worth noting that e-commerce journey isn't linear. Customers might revisit stages, skip some altogether, or even set sail for other islands. However, by understanding these typical stages and optimizing touchpoints along the way, a map can be created that leads them to satisfaction, loyalty, and brand advocacy. Tools for Charting Your Course: Customer journey mapping: Visualize the entire journey to identify pain points and opportunities. Analytics and data tracking: Monitor customer behavior to understand their preferences and optimize touchpoints. A/B testing: Experiment with different elements of your website and marketing campaigns to find what resonates best. Personalization: Tailor your offerings and communication to individual customer needs and preferences. Summary: By following these tips and understanding the e-commerce journey, you can transform your website into a hospitable harbor, attracting new customers, retaining loyal ones, and ultimately, charting a course towards e-commerce success. The cloud’s agility and scalability has completely changed how businesses operate, but it also comes with a hidden cost: cloud sprawl. Organizations can quickly overspend on underutilized resources if proper cloud cost optimization (CCO) strategies aren’t implemented. Fortunately, with the right tools, techniques, and a proactive approach, you can significantly reduce your cloud bills while maximizing the value you get from your cloud investment. Cloud Cost Intelligence The first step to optimizing your cloud spend is gaining cloud cost intelligence. This involves systematically monitoring and analyzing your cloud resource usage. Tools like CloudWatch from AWS, Azure Cost Management for Microsoft Azure, and GCP Billing for Google Cloud Platform offer valuable insights into your resource utilization, cost breakdowns, and potential savings opportunities. These tools also enable you to: Set budgets and alerts Define thresholds for your cloud spending and receive real-time notifications when you approach your limits. Identify cost anomalies Detect unusual spikes in your cloud expenses, allowing you to investigate and address potential issues. Track trends and forecast future costs Gain insights into your spending patterns and predict future cloud costs for better budgeting and planning. Rightsizing Cloud resources come in various sizes and configurations, each carrying its own cost. Rightsizing involves ensuring you’re utilizing the optimal resource size to meet your workload demands without paying for more than you need. Rightsizing strategies include: Autoscaling This allows your cloud resources to automatically scale up or down based on real-time traffic, ensuring optimal utilization and avoiding unnecessary costs. Reserved instances Committing to using specific resources for a specific period can lead to significant discounts compared to on-demand pricing. We’ll delve deeper into this later. Instance termination Identify and terminate idle or underused resources that are no longer required. Multi-Cloud for Cost Savings While single cloud providers offer a range of services, their pricing structures may not always be the most cost-effective. A multi-cloud strategy involves utilizing resources from different cloud providers to leverage their competitive pricing and features. For instance, you might run your storage needs on one cloud platform known for its low storage costs while running your compute-intensive workloads on another provider offering better compute pricing. This approach requires careful planning and management but can potentially lead to significant cost savings. Reservations Cloud providers offer reserved instances, which are virtual machines or other resources that you can commit to using for a specific period (typically one or three years) in exchange for significant discounts. This is ideal for predictable workloads that require consistent resources. However, consider the following before committing to reservations: Workload predictability Ensure your workloads are consistent and won’t undergo drastic changes during the reservation period. Flexibility Needs Reserved instances offer a lower cost but come with less flexibility compared to on-demand resources. Make Arpatech Your Cloud Cost Optimization Partner Optimizing your cloud costs requires a multi-pronged approach that combines intelligent analysis, rightsizing strategies, and clever use of reservations. By adopting these strategies and partnering with a trusted cloud optimization expert like Arpatech, you can ensure you’re getting the most value out of your cloud investment while significantly reducing your cloud bills. Arpatech’s team of experienced professionals has a proven track record of helping businesses achieve significant cloud cost savings through their comprehensive approach to cloud cost optimization. The cloud revolution has arrived, and organizations across the globe are recognizing its potential. From scalability and agility to cost efficiency and improved performance, the cloud offers several benefits. However, migrating your current workloads from on-premise data centers to the cloud is nothing less than a challenge. If you're shifting towards the cloud, explore here how you can acquire a seamless and successful cloud migration journey! Why Migrate to the Cloud? Before we learn the steps, you need to take, let’s remember why cloud migration is beneficial to your business. The cloud offers agility, scalability, cost optimization, disaster recovery and improved security to your business and promotes an innovative and collaborative environment throughout your organization. Steps for Cloud Migration Now, let’s delve into the 7 essential steps for a seamless cloud migration: 1. Define Your Business Objectives and Requirements Begin by understanding your aims and objectives. What business goals do you want to achieve? Identify specific applications, workloads, and data that need to be migrated. You also need to consider compliance requirements and security needs. 2. Choose Your Cloud Migration Strategy Several cloud migration strategies exist, each with its advantages and drawbacks. Here are two of the most popular ones: Lift and Shift Move workloads directly to the cloud without major changes. Suitable for simple applications. Refactor and Redeploy Modernize applications to leverage cloud-native features and functionalities for improved performance and scalability. 3. Develop a Detailed Cloud Migration Plan Your plan should outline the scope, timeline, resources, and budget for the migration. It should also include detailed migration steps for each workload, data migration strategy, and testing procedures. 4. Select the Right Cloud Provider and Services Evaluate various cloud providers based on your needs and budget. Consider factors like service offerings, security, scalability, pricing models, and support. Choose the provider that best aligns with your requirements. 5. Execute the Cloud Migration Process This stage involves the actual migration of workloads to the cloud. Ensure proper communication and collaboration among your IT team, the cloud provider, and any other stakeholders. Conduct thorough testing and validation throughout the process. 6. Optimize and Manage Your Cloud Environment Cloud migration is not a one-time event. Continuously monitor and optimize your cloud resources to ensure cost efficiency and optimal performance. Implement governance policies and security measures to ensure ongoing security and compliance. On-Premise to Cloud Migration Strategy Before migrating your on-premise applications to the cloud, don’t rush in! Start by thoroughly checking how your applications interact with each other and whether they’re compatible with the cloud environment you’ve chosen. In some cases, it might be worth modernizing your applications to take advantage of the cloud’s capabilities and improve performance. Finally, break down the migration process into smaller phases to minimize disruptions to your operations and ensure a smooth transition. Don’t try to move everything at once, contact experts in the field to handle it if you're still unsure. Gone are the days when the sky was the limit—today, it’s the cloud! Organizations are swiftly migrating to cloud services , leveraging the flexibility, scalability, and cost-effectiveness they offer. However, navigating the cloud universe is not easy, especially with terms like IaaS, PaaS, and SaaS hovering around. But you need not fret! Here we incisively explore these cloud service models, comparing the offerings of these three key players: AWS, Azure, and GCP. The Cloud Trinity: IaaS, PaaS, and SaaS Before we delve into the big three, let’s understand the fundamental cloud service models: Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS) Rent the building blocks: virtual servers, storage, and networking. These allow you to build your own IT infrastructure on top. Think of it as a customizable lego set for your digital needs. Platform as a Service (PaaS) Focus on developing and deploying applications without worrying about the underlying infrastructure. Imagine a pre-built platform with tools and services waiting to bring your app ideas to life. Software as a Service (SaaS) Subscribe to and use ready-to-go software applications over the Internet. Think of it as renting software instead of buying it, with the provider handling maintenance and updates. AWS, Azure, and GCP - Now, What Are They? Now, let’s see how these models translate into the offerings of the industry giants: AWS IaaS Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2) offers virtual servers with diverse configurations, while Amazon Simple Storage Service (S3) provides scalable object storage. PaaS AWS Elastic Beanstalk simplifies application deployment and management, and AWS Lambda offers serverless computing for code execution without managing servers. SaaS From Amazon WorkMail for email to Amazon SageMaker for machine learning, AWS offers a plethora of SaaS solutions. Azure: IaaS Azure Virtual Machines provide customizable virtual servers, while Azure Blob Storage offers flexible object storage with various tiers. PaaS Azure App Service simplifies web app and mobile backend deployment, while Azure Functions offers serverless computing capabilities. SaaS Microsoft Office 365, Dynamics 365, and Azure Active Directory are just a few examples of Azure’s extensive SaaS solutions. GCP: IaaS Google Compute Engine offers virtual machines with diverse configurations, while Cloud Storage provides flexible object storage with various options. PaaS Google App Engine manages app deployment and scaling, while Cloud Functions offers serverless computing capabilities. SaaS Google Workspace for collaboration, Cloud Spanner for globally distributed databases, and BigQuery for data analytics are some of GCP’s SaaS offerings. IaaS vs. PaaS: Which One is Better? The choice between IaaS and PaaS depends on your specific needs: IaaS Choose IaaS if you need fine-grained control over your IT infrastructure, have unique security requirements, or require specific operating systems. It’s ideal for large enterprises with complex IT needs. PaaS Choose PaaS if you want faster development and deployment, value ease of use, and prioritize agility. It’s perfect for startups or businesses focusing on core application development. SaaS: The Real Champion SaaS shines when you need specific software functionality without managing the infrastructure or software itself. It’s ideal for businesses of all sizes seeking cost-effective, readily available solutions. In The End The cloud is not a one-size-fits-all solution. By understanding your individual needs and carefully evaluating the offerings of different providers, you can choose the cloud services that will drive your business to new heights. So, get ready to explore the vast potential of the cloud and embark on your journey to growth and innovation! The cloud revolution has arrived, and organizations across the globe are recognizing its potential. From scalability and agility to cost efficiency and improved performance, the cloud offers several benefits. However, migrating your current workloads from on-premise data centers to the cloud is nothing less than a challenge. If you're shifting towards the cloud, explore here how you can acquire a seamless and successful cloud migration journey! Why Migrate to the Cloud? Before we learn the steps, you need to take, let’s remember why cloud migration is beneficial to your business. The cloud offers agility, scalability, cost optimization, disaster recovery and improved security to your business and promotes an innovative and collaborative environment throughout your organization. Steps for Cloud Migration Now, let’s delve into the 7 essential steps for a seamless cloud migration: 1. Define Your Business Objectives and Requirements Begin by understanding your aims and objectives. What business goals do you want to achieve? Identify specific applications, workloads, and data that need to be migrated. You also need to consider compliance requirements and security needs. 2. Choose Your Cloud Migration Strategy Several cloud migration strategies exist, each with its advantages and drawbacks. Here are two of the most popular ones: Lift and Shift Move workloads directly to the cloud without major changes. Suitable for simple applications. Refactor and Redeploy Modernize applications to leverage cloud-native features and functionalities for improved performance and scalability. 3. Develop a Detailed Cloud Migration Plan Your plan should outline the scope, timeline, resources, and budget for the migration. It should also include detailed migration steps for each workload, data migration strategy, and testing procedures. 4. Select the Right Cloud Provider and Services Evaluate various cloud providers based on your needs and budget. Consider factors like service offerings, security, scalability, pricing models, and support. Choose the provider that best aligns with your requirements. 5. Execute the Cloud Migration Process This stage involves the actual migration of workloads to the cloud. Ensure proper communication and collaboration among your IT team, the cloud provider, and any other stakeholders. Conduct thorough testing and validation throughout the process. 6. Optimize and Manage Your Cloud Environment Cloud migration is not a one-time event. Continuously monitor and optimize your cloud resources to ensure cost efficiency and optimal performance. Implement governance policies and security measures to ensure ongoing security and compliance. On-Premise to Cloud Migration Strategy Before migrating your on-premise applications to the cloud, don’t rush in! Start by thoroughly checking how your applications interact with each other and whether they’re compatible with the cloud environment you’ve chosen. In some cases, it might be worth modernizing your applications to take advantage of the cloud’s capabilities and improve performance. Finally, break down the migration process into smaller phases to minimize disruptions to your operations and ensure a smooth transition. Don’t try to move everything at once, contact experts in the field to handle it if you're still unsure. Cloud computing security and cybersecurity go hand in hand. When it comes to cloud security, it can entail a lot of things, including, protecting all data and information from falling into malicious hands, mitigating threats before they can harm your business, and being ready for any threat or incident. But cloud security is more than just being ready to defend against every threat. The best approaches vary on the cloud computing model you choose for your business because navigating hybrid cloud and multi-cloud requires customized strategies if you want to stay ahead of the curve. Why is Cloud Security Important? With the vast amount of data stored in the cloud today, it is paramount that you implement cloud security. It protects all kinds of confidential information and restricts all unauthorized access. By adopting effective security measures, both individuals and businesses can have confidence that their data is safeguarded from cyber-attacks and other risks. Additionally, robust cloud security ensures adherence to industry standards and regulations, promoting trust with customers and partners. Prioritizing cloud security is essential for protecting sensitive personal and business information, making it a crucial consideration. Securing Your Cloud Infrastructure: Best Practices and Strategies When organizations move from on-premises systems to cloud infrastructure, understanding how to ensure a smooth transition is essential. Below are key cloud computing security best practices and strategies that businesses should adopt during the shift to cloud infrastructure. Understand Cloud Requirements First of all, it is vital that a business understands its cloud usage requirements by assessing all sensitive data and identifying all potholes that are potential risks for the company. Start the process of recognizing your cloud requirements by taking audit configurations of IaaS service providers such as AWS and Azure to verify aspects like encryption and network configuration. Recognize the Shared Security Roles Cloud security is not the sole responsibility of the cloud provider, they work on a shared responsibility. It is imperative that businesses do their part like ensuring that all applications and infrastructures are secure. The shared roles change according to the cloud module you choose from IaaS, SaaS, or PaaS. Ensure the Usage of Secure APIs APIs offer users access to cloud computing services, making it crucial to secure them due to their potential vulnerabilities to security breaches. Businesses can enhance API security by employing API gateways, monitoring API activities, updating dependencies, and identifying weaknesses. Additionally, implementing encryption for APIs can help reduce the risk of unauthorized access. Follow All Regulatory Compliances Lastly, it is important that when you're transitioning your business to the cloud infrastructure, you ensure that the cloud providers you select follow all regulatory compliances such as PCI DSS and HIPAA. This will help ensure adherence to standard regulatory requirements and prevent legal repercussions. In The End As more businesses are moving towards the cloud computing infrastructure, a study by Gartner predicts that more than 50% of companies will be using cloud platforms by the end of 2028, predicting the importance of the cloud. Do you want to utilize the cloud in your business and enhance security around all operational aspects? Arpatech offers managed cloud services and consulting. Book your session with our professionals today! When disaster strikes, people go into panic. We cannot afford to panic in a cloud-based environment, if we panic, we risk losing all data with our reputations sinking in the ocean. Instead of panicking over data loss, we need a solid disaster recovery strategy beforehand because when data loss occurs, it accompanies severe consequences like operational disruptions and business closures. Here, cloud-based disaster recovery plans come in like a life-saving grace. What is Cloud-Based Disaster Recovery? In a cloud environment, disaster recovery employs cloud computing to keep all data and applications safe against any potential disasters. It involves maintaining and storing electronic records in a cloud infrastructure, ensuring that all data is backed up in case of data loss. Understanding Disaster Recovery as a Service (DRaaS) A specialized form of cloud-based disaster recovery is the DRaaS, or disaster recovery as a service, which is a service companies use to outsource the hosting and replication of servers to third-party providers. So, instead of an in-house recovery plan, they get the backup outsourced, enabling them to continue business no matter the calamity. These third-party facilitators assist in data recovery and rapid business continuity. Benefits of Cloud-Based Disaster Recovery Cloud-based disaster recovery offers several benefits compared to traditional methods, such as being more cost-efficient, scalable, flexible, and providing faster recovery times. Pay-As-You-Go Model and Cost-Efficiency Cloud solutions follow a pay-as-you-go approach, removing the need for large upfront investments in physical hardware. Flexibility and Scalability These solutions allow businesses to easily adjust storage and computing resources according to their requirements, supporting business expansion and preventing over-provisioning expenses. Faster Recovery Times (RTO and RPO) Cloud-based disaster recovery minimizes Recovery Time Objective (RTO) and Recovery Point Objective (RPO), ensuring quicker data recovery from the cloud. Choosing the Best DRaaS Provider It is imperative that you choose a reliable and trustworthy DRaaS provider as it concerns your million-dollar business. There are factors from infrastructure, compliance, and security to customer service and pricing that you should consider. However, the most important features to note are the SLAs. They define the provider's obligations concerning performance and availability, providing transparency and a course of action if issues arise. Get in touch with the developers at Arpatech and let’s back up your data to the cloud! As the world continues to navigate the fast-evolving digital landscape, the need for reliable, scalable, and secure computing solutions has become more important than ever. This is where cloud computing comes in, offering a flexible and cost-effective way to store, manage, and access data and applications. Navigating the different cloud models can be baffling, however. This blog explores the three main models: public cloud, private cloud, and hybrid cloud, dissecting their key differences and highlighting the most appropriate use cases for each. Public Cloud vs Private Cloud vs Hybrid Cloud Here are the major differences between the three key models. Public Cloud Imagine a massive, shared pool of computing resources (servers, storage, networking) owned and managed by a cloud service provider (CSP) like Amazon Web Services (AWS), Microsoft Azure, or Google Cloud Platform (GCP). These resources are accessible to anyone with an internet connection. This model is often compared to renting an apartment – you share the building and amenities with others, but have your own dedicated living space. Private Cloud This model is essentially the opposite of a public cloud. Here, the infrastructure is dedicated to a single organization and operates solely within their data center or through a managed service provider. This offers a high degree of control, security, and customization but you are also responsible for managing the infrastructure yourself. Think of it as owning your own house – you have complete control but are also responsible for all maintenance. Hybrid Cloud This model combines both public and private cloud environments, creating a flexible and robust infrastructure. Organizations can leverage the scalability and cost-effectiveness of the public cloud for non-critical workloads while maintaining sensitive data and applications on the secure private cloud environment. This model is like having both a house and an apartment – you can enjoy the comfort of your own space while having the flexibility of the public option when needed. Key Differences Between Public & Hybrid Clouds Understanding the differences between public and hybrid clouds is crucial for making informed decisions. Here’s a breakdown of the key points: Feature Public Cloud Hybrid Cloud Infrastructure Shared with multiple users Dedicated to a single organization Management & Control Managed by the CSP Shared between organization and CSP Security Moderate control High level of control Scalability Highly scalable Scalable with public cloud integration Cost Pay-as-you-go model Combination of fixed and variable costs Suitable for? Non-critical workloads, web applications, development & testing Sensitive data, regulatory compliance, workloads with fluctuating demands Understanding Public vs Private vs Hybrid Cloud Use Cases Public Cloud Use Cases Website Hosting Public cloud enables businesses to host websites and web applications with scalable infrastructure. It greatly impacts organizations in easily managing varying traffic loads and reducing costs by only paying for the resources they use. Big Data Analytics Processing large volumes of data for insights and analysis using powerful cloud computing resources is also a public cloud feature. Companies can leverage advanced analytics without investing in on-premise infrastructure, enabling data-driven decision-making. Machine Learning and AI With a public cloud mode, you can train and deploy machine learning models using scalable cloud resources. Organizations can access cutting-edge tools and computing power to develop and deploy AI applications more rapidly and cost-effectively. Private Cloud Use Cases Regulatory Compliance & Data Security Private clouds provide enhanced control and security for organizations that handle sensitive data in regulated industries (e.g., healthcare, finance). This use case ensures compliance with stringent regulations, protects sensitive information, and reduces the risk of data breaches. Business-Critical Systems In a private cloud, you can run mission-critical applications that require high availability, performance, and security. Organizations can guarantee uptime and optimal performance for essential business operations, minimizing disruptions. Development and Testing Environments Creating isolated and secure environments for software development and testing is much easier on a private cloud. Development teams can innovate and test applications without affecting production environments, leading to faster release cycles and improved software quality. Hybrid Cloud Use Cases Scalable Workloads A hybrid cloud enables you to handle variable workloads, such as seasonal spikes in traffic for e-commerce. Organizations can seamlessly scale resources, ensuring performance during peak times while optimizing costs during low-demand periods. Data Backup and Disaster Recovery In a hybrid cloud environment, you implement a robust disaster recovery strategy that leverages both private and public clouds. This approach ensures data resilience and quick recovery from disasters, protecting business continuity. Application Modernization A hybrid cloud allows transitioning legacy applications to modern cloud-native architectures in a phased manner. Organizations can modernize their applications while maintaining operational continuity, leading to improved performance and reduced technical debt. Future of Cloud-based Infrastructure Public cloud, private cloud, and hybrid cloud each offer unique advantages and disadvantages. By understanding these models and their suitable use cases, organizations can make informed decisions about their cloud strategy, ensuring it aligns with their specific needs in terms of security, scalability, cost, and compliance. Still confused about what cloud to choose for your business? Get help from professionals and for a free cloud consultation, get in touch with our team! In today's rapidly evolving digital landscape, cloud migration has become an essential strategy for organizations looking to enhance resource efficiency, reduce operational expenses, adapt quickly to shifting market demands, and effectively protect their data. By thoroughly grasping these factors, organizations can develop customized and flexible solutions that meet their specific requirements, helping them stay competitive and agile in an increasingly digital marketplace. But the question remains: what is migration in cloud computing? What is Cloud Migration? Cloud migration is the process of moving an organization’s digital assets, services, databases, IT resources, and applications from on-premise data centers to a cloud infrastructure. It can also involve shifting from one cloud environment to another (known as cloud-to-cloud migration). The migration typically includes moving data, applications, and workloads to cloud services like Amazon Web Services (AWS), Microsoft Azure, or Google Cloud. Cloud migration offers numerous benefits, such as scalability, cost-efficiency, enhanced performance, flexibility, and increased security. The process can be complex, often requiring careful planning to ensure business continuity and minimal downtime during the transition. Types of Cloud Migration There are various types of cloud migrations depending on what you are migrating and where. So, here are the primary types of cloud migration: Workload-Specific Migration This approach focuses on migrating specific workloads to the cloud. For example, some companies may move specific databases or mainframes to the cloud to take advantage of reduced costs, better performance, stronger security, and additional benefits. Cloud-to-Cloud Migration Some organizations transfer their resources from one public cloud to another for several reasons, including due to different pricing models, improved security features, or access to specialized products like machine learning tools or AI. This shift can also be prompted by changes in the company’s structure or updates to service-level agreements. Complete Data Center Migration This type of migration entails transferring all data, applications, and services from on-premises data centers to a cloud provider’s servers. Due to its complexity, it demands careful planning and rigorous testing to guarantee a seamless and efficient implementation. Hybrid Cloud Migration In this migration, companies shift some resources to the public cloud while retaining others on-premises, allowing organizations to maximize existing infrastructure and benefit from cloud flexibility. It also serves as a backup strategy, enabling data recovery from the cloud in case of on-premises system failures. Benefits of Cloud Migration Many organizations are now moving towards cloud migration. Why? Here are some key benefits: Elastic Scalability Cloud-based infrastructure removes many physical and financial obstacles to scalability. Unlike on-premises setups, which demand large investments in server maintenance and data centers, cloud solutions enable businesses to easily scale IT resources up or down as needed. Improved Security Although no system is entirely foolproof, cloud service providers enforce strict security protocols to protect sensitive data, adhering to industry standards and regulations. Automated updates and advanced security tools help minimize risks. In the End Cloud migration provides organizations with key benefits, helping them stay competitive in today’s fast-evolving digital landscape. It offers flexible scalability, cost-efficiency, improved security, and faster technology adoption, addressing many challenges of traditional IT infrastructure. So, book your free cloud consultation today and get in touch with Arpatech’s Cloud Migration specialists! In today’s fast-paced, always-connected world, downtime isn’t just an inconvenience; it’s a significant business risk. A few minutes of unplanned outages can lead to frustrated customers, lost revenue, and a damaged reputation. This is why Predictive Cloud Maintenance has become a game-changer for organizations relying on cloud infrastructure. This modern approach ensures maximum uptime while minimizing disruptions with the help of monitoring, updates, and analytics. The Shift from Reactive to Predictive Maintenance Traditionally, IT teams have relied on reactive maintenance — addressing issues only after they occur. While this approach may fix the problem, it does little to prevent future incidents or optimize performance in the long run. Enter predictive maintenance, a proactive strategy that uses data analytics and machine learning to identify potential issues before they impact service availability. Predictive maintenance enables businesses to not only react faster but also make smarter decisions regarding updates and infrastructure adjustments. It keeps systems operating smoothly, ensuring optimal performance and minimal downtime. The Three Pillars of Predictive Cloud Maintenance 1. Real-time Monitoring for Early Detection Monitoring has always been an essential part of cloud maintenance, but with predictive cloud solutions, monitoring is elevated to a new level. Real-time data is collected continuously from cloud environments, offering insights into system performance, network traffic, and potential bottlenecks. This data helps identify irregular patterns that could signal underlying problems. For instance, increasing CPU load or memory consumption could hint at an upcoming outage. By recognizing these anomalies early, IT teams can take action to prevent downtime, scaling resources or adjusting configurations before failure strikes. 2. Automated Updates and Patches A critical element of maintaining cloud infrastructure is keeping software, firmware, and systems up to date. However, manual updates often come with risks of human error or missed patches, leaving systems vulnerable to bugs or security threats. Predictive cloud maintenance platforms automate this process, using machine learning algorithms to determine the best times to deploy updates without causing disruption. These platforms can prioritize critical patches based on the historical data of failure points or known vulnerabilities, further improving security and efficiency. By automating updates, businesses can ensure their infrastructure stays current without sacrificing uptime or needing constant oversight from IT teams. 3. Data-driven Analytics for Informed Decision Making The backbone of predictive maintenance is data analytics. Predictive algorithms analyze vast amounts of operational data, from historical performance metrics to usage trends. This analysis is used to predict when specific components of your infrastructure might fail or require updates. Advanced analytics platforms also offer actionable insights for improving overall system performance. For instance, they can suggest optimal times for scaling resources, highlight recurring issues across different cloud instances, or recommend infrastructure tweaks based on usage patterns. Analytics can be presented via intuitive dashboards that provide a real-time overview of your cloud environment. This ensures IT teams are well-informed, enabling them to make proactive decisions quickly and effectively. Benefits of Predictive Cloud Maintenance 1. Minimized Downtime The most obvious advantage is reduced downtime. Predictive maintenance can identify issues before they escalate into critical failures, allowing IT teams to resolve them without disrupting service. 2. Cost Efficiency Unexpected system failures often lead to costly emergency fixes. By addressing issues before they arise, companies can avoid such expenses, enabling more efficient budgeting and resource allocation. 3. Enhanced Security Automated patching reduces the risk of vulnerabilities in the cloud infrastructure. Predictive tools can prioritize security updates based on risk, ensuring critical patches are applied swiftly without manual intervention. 4. Improved Performance Data analytics continuously optimizes system performance, helping businesses anticipate their resource needs and avoid bottlenecks. The result is a cloud environment that operates at peak efficiency. 5. Proactive IT Teams Rather than constantly firefighting, IT teams can shift their focus to innovation and strategic projects. Predictive cloud maintenance enables them to stay ahead of problems, boosting productivity and long-term growth. The Future of Cloud Uptime In the age of digital transformation, keeping your cloud environment running smoothly is critical, and predictive cloud maintenance is the key to achieving maximum uptime. By harnessing the power of monitoring, automated updates, and data-driven analytics, businesses can stay one step ahead of potential issues, delivering uninterrupted services and enhancing customer satisfaction. Now is the time to embrace predictive cloud maintenance. Join Arpatech and unlock the full potential of your cloud infrastructure and drive continuous business success. When you're running an e-commerce business, your customers are your priority, therefore delivering your products swiftly and efficiently is pivotal. However, most companies face challenges in the final phase of the delivery process. Streamlining Last-Mile Delivery Solutions This last-mile delivery from the warehouse to a customer’s house is the most arduous stage of the delivery process, costing companies an arm and a leg. Sometimes, even this effort can leave some unsatisfied customers. So, how do we fix this issue and improve your e-commerce business to reach peak customer satisfaction? Here are a few strategies you can use to get ahead of your competition: 1. Work on Reducing Last-Mile Delivery Time According to different surveys, most customers are willing to pay extra, if they are able to get faster deliveries, or even better – same-day deliveries. If you want to adhere to customer demands, then reducing the delivery time is the best route to follow. Here are some tips that will allow you to reduce delivery time for consumers. Route planning allows logistics to find the shortest and most efficient routes for drivers. It enables them to avoid any delays and traffic Using local logistics centers also facilitates faster deliveries. 2. Optimize Last-Mile Delivery Solution Costs According to different reports, last-mile delivery can amount to about 53% of the entire shipping cost. How do we reduce these costs? With refined expenses, you can offer more competitive prices and increase your profits. Here are some ways you can fine-tune your costs to improve your last-mile delivery company: Upgrading your packaging strategy Setting up dynamic pricing can change the game With an optimized packaging structure, you will be able to decrease the weight and size of your packages, allowing you to save on space and fuel. On the other hand, revising your prices according to the demands will maximize your ROI and business efficiency. Pair both these cost-effective solutions, hire local third-party logistics to handle your last-mile delivery, and successfully employ experts who will deliver your products on time. 3. Improve Last-Mile Delivery Software Accuracy with Real-Time Tracking If you want to improve your customer satisfaction and experience, integrating real-time tracking systems into your applications is also a powerful move. Not only does it enable transparency but it also allows your consumers to track and monitor their parcel status. Real-time data also enables better management of delivery personnel and vehicles. You can dynamically allocate resources based on current demand, ensuring that deliveries are completed more efficiently. 4. Enhance Last-Mile Delivery with the Latest Technologies You can also refine your last-mile delivery solutions by adapting to the latest technologies. If you don’t want to choose third-party vendors, you can utilize tech in your own delivery system and increase your consumer satisfaction. Implement AI and effectively analyze traffic patterns Utilize drones and autonomous vehicles for contactless deliveries How Optimized Last-Mile Delivery Benefits Your Business? Optimizing last-mile delivery has a direct and significant impact on your business. It reduces operational costs by improving route efficiency and minimizing fuel consumption, while also speeding up delivery times. Faster deliveries lead to increased customer satisfaction, loyalty, and repeat business. If you want options to get better last-mile deliveries, contact the team at Arpatech today! It is imperative that you choose a reliable software development company before you get your software developed, one that will allow your business to soar to new heights. How Do You Identify Reliable Software Development Companies? Whether you're a startup owner or operate a seasoned enterprise, not every company is the best for your business. Depending on your project and the type of software you require, you should select the perfect partner for the job. We have compiled a list of features you should look for in any software development company you decide upon. 1. Align Your Requirements Before examining companies and their portfolios, it is imperative to examine your organization inside and out and assess all your goals and requirements. According to a survey conducted by Clutch, 70% of companies are unable to meet their software requirements due to unclear software objectives. Therefore, if you want to work with a custom software development company in Dubai, you need to clearly define all your outcomes and end goals. 2. Keep Future Potential in Mind Before going with a single software development service, think about what lies ahead for your software. When choosing a company look at their growth trajectory as well, do they have the potential to evolve with your software? When collaborating with different businesses, it is crucial that they are capable of meeting your current needs, but also possess the potential to cater to future plans and possibilities. 3. Portfolio Assessment One sign that gives away a reputable software development company in Dubai is the presence of their portfolio. Companies affirm that a strong portfolio speaks for their capabilities, so before going forward with a software partner, thoroughly review their assortment of work. Does their work contain the creativity you're looking for, have a customer-centric design, and the ability to solve issues? 4. Strong Testimonials Show Excellence Another way you can assess custom software development services in Dubai is by looking at their client feedback. Strong testimonials and recommendations from a company’s clientele point towards expertise and reliability. So, if their customer base is raving about the collaborations and the software they deliver, it is safe to say, they are a reliable organization. 5. Do your Projects and Technology Stacks Align? However, before you go with the word of other people and choose the company, you need to make sure their tech and development methods align with your software requirements. If their methods worked for someone else, that doesn’t mean they will work for your company as well. You also need to ensure that the company keeps up with emerging technologies and methodologies. This will be useful to you in the long run, as they will make sure that your application remains abreast with upcoming technologies and innovations. 6. Examine Their Cost and Time Durations There are two other factors that you need to look into before selecting the best software company in Dubai, and those are pricing modules and time-to-market durations. When you work with businesses, they must offer you transparent pricing models that build trust and give you a clear idea of what you're getting for the expense you're investing. How soon can they deliver your project is also very important. When you work with a reputable company, they provide you with a clear working schedule that allows you to know each step of the development cycle and enables you to estimate how soon your software will be delivered. Get Quotes and Make The Right Decision Whether you want to work with a CRM developer or an ERP software development company in Dubai, you should review all these features before shortlisting the best ones. However, before going with the best company, you should interview each of them and get quotations for your project. After assessing how excited they are to work with you and the portfolio they bring to the table, you can opt for the best working relationship. Ai is the driving force behind today’s rapid transformation in financial services. With the advent of generative AI in fintech, not only have firms unlocked new efficiencies, but they are now equipped with new and improved risk management capabilities. While there are numerous AI technologies in the world today, there are still some fintech-related AI automations that are revolutionizing the financial landscape. These technologies are a predominant part of the mobile app development companies and are being used in many innovative ways. Use Cases of Generative Ai in Fintech Here are some useful Generative AI real-life examples and uses in the financial sector, that will fascinate you. Fraud Detection When it comes to generative AI use cases in real-life in the banking and financial sector, the one thing people want to get rid of is fraud. The global fraud detection and prevention market was about $29.5 million in the year 2022, and is expected to increase in the coming year. It is predicted that it will reach over $252 billion by 2032. Many banks and financial firms are leveraging generative AI for fraud detection today, like the Bank of America, who are identifying fraudulent credit card transactions by analyzing billions of transactions every day. For example, their system can effortlessly detect transactions from unusual locations and identify any amount that is atypically large. Risk Assessment By analyzing historical data, spending habits, and market trends, generative AI helps firms make more informed decisions. Not only is this beneficial for financial companies, but also their users. With the help of inspections and analysis, companies can mitigate potential losses and users will find loan receiving easier. When companies make more calculated lending decisions, they also make it effortless for their customers to trust their decisions. The risk assessment of generative AI in fintech also enables companies to use its pattern recognition feature to predict and calculate an individual’s creditworthiness, making it a useful tool on each end. Personalized Financial Advice As mentioned before, generative AI can analyze patterns, user data, risk tolerance, and financial goals, therefore, just like companies, individuals can also make informed decisions about all financial situations. From investment ventures and savings to financial planning, users can leverage AI in fintech and make financially-sound decisions. In the US, 77% of Americans say that they feel anxious about financial decisions. AI can now analyze all your expenses, manage risks and make investment plans tailored to your needs, so get a personalized experience without hesitation. Customer Service Automation Now customer service is all about helping the customer find the right answers without much hassle. As generative AI has taken over the customer satisfaction aspect of the job, the services have become more streamlined. By understanding natural language and context, generative AI provides customized responses to customers and impromptu assistance that improves customer satisfaction and reduces a lot of load from customer service teams. Innovative Neural Network Structures Generative AI is crucial in shaping neural network structures in the FinTech sector. By leveraging its capabilities, companies can fine-tune the architecture and parameters of their neural networks, boosting model performance and accuracy. AI in fintech also facilitates the discovery of innovative network designs, including deep neural networks, Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs), and Recurrent Neural Networks (RNNs). This enhances predictive abilities and supports more advanced financial analysis and forecasting. The Future We See The potential exists for generative AI to enhance the efficiency with which organizations meet regulatory requirements by analyzing, collating, and correctly formatting their data. It also offers significant advantages for improving the operational efficiency of organizations beyond the more commonly discussed uses, such as enhancing “Know Your Customer” operations or fraud monitoring. With the right use of AI in Fintech, the financial industry will go beyond what humans imagine. Get highly secure financial apps at Arpatech or talk to professionals to know what’s right for your fintech business today. Cloud Cryptography is a method that protects the data stored in the cloud. The basic aim of using such a method is authentication. The world is moving forward with technological advancements, so companies use strong measures to avoid hacking, breached by malware, and other unprotected layers. The whole idea of cloud cryptography is to encrypt algorithms into mixed codes, which are called ciphertext. With the help of an encryption key, the ciphertext converts into plaintext by decoding it with a series of bits. There are two ways in which you can use the encryption to secure the data. Information at rest It is when the information storage is in the cloud, computer hard drive, mobiles, and apps electronically. Information in transit When the information is moving through different connections (email, apps, or even browsers), it is information in transit. Benefits of Cloud Cryptography Let us have a look at the benefits of the cloud cryptography: Privacy The main advantage of cloud cryptography is privacy. The data stays private for users because the details will be confidential, and the risk of fraud by unauthorized users reduces. Improved data security When one transfers data from one place to another, it is at risk, which is then prevented by the encryption that keeps the information valuable. Ways of Cloud Cryptography Cloud cryptography is the best measure one can take when it comes to data security. Companies or businesses receive a notification immediately if any unauthorized user tries to make any change. The people who can get its access are the once with cryptographic keys. Moreover, cryptography can protect information and communication with the assistance of codes. There are three ways in which the cryptography is based on algorithms: Hashing Symmetric- key Asymmetric-key Hashing The most important key to blockchain security is hashing. Do you know what a blockchain is? It is a key where the information is stored in blocks and connected with a chain such as cryptographic. Hashing is involved in indexing and retrieving items in a database, which automatically provides faster retrieving. Symmetric algorithms It is used for both encryption and data decryption. This takes little computing power and works very well in encryption. The symmetrical users are provided with a two-way system and maintain user authentication because the user has the key, the encrypted data in the cloud, which is not decodable. Asymmetric algorithms Asymmetric algorithms can be divided into coding and decryption keys. Every receiver requires encrypted data here. This key is also called the decryption key of the receiver. The key to encrypted data usually belongs to an individual or entity. This type of methodology is the most secure since it requires both keys to access information. Companies should implement a solution for information security that will protect your data because the cloud cryptography provides strong encryption so that it provides all the objectives that will fulfill the security needs. Companies should implement a solution for information security that will protect your data because the cloud cryptography provides strong encryption so that it provides all the objectives that will fulfill the security needs. This is particularly important in sensitive industries like healthcare cloud migration, where safeguarding patient data and meeting compliance standards are non-negotiable We live in a world driven by technology. In fact, technology has improved nearly every part of our business and personal lives. And while technological advancements have reached dizzying heights today, the prospect of what tomorrow has in store might sound even more boggling even for the most ingenious minds. Whether it's self-driving cars, space tourism, artificial intelligence or virtual reality, our future is—without a doubt—promising. Virtual reality will remarkably change the landscape of every industry—military, healthcare, entertainment, gaming, education, fashion, and business just to name a few. In fact, nothing in life and society will be unaffected by virtual reality. In the first two months of 2016 alone, investment in virtual reality and artificial intelligence crossed a whopping $1.1 billion mark. Leading tech companies, which consider virtual reality the next big thing, are constantly investing in the technology. Here are just a few ways on how VR will change our future. Gaming While the most obvious use of virtual reality is gaming, it’s not the only industry that benefits from the technology. When played through virtual reality platform, video games can be far more engaging and interesting. It hardly needs pointing out that the experience of playing games through VR headsets are compelling and addictive, for the games you have on your device can never give you as much fun as you will encounter on VR games. That’s exactly the reason that a number of people still prefer to go to game houses when they have more than five games on their device. In addition to video games, virtual reality can be used for entertainment in many ways. Universal Studios, for example, provides infinite fun with their virtual tour rides, with some scenes in the ride requiring VR headsets while many others don’t. Watching Films Watching films, a highly entertaining activity in itself, will become more enjoyable with virtual reality. VR will give you the IMAX experience at home, providing you with a gigantic screen in front of you, while there’s none. Quite a few cinemas now provide viewers with VR headsets before watching a movie. Movies become a thrilling and engaging experience when viewed through VR headsets. And to add to the whole movie-viewing experience, some cinemas install heavy speakers in various parts of the cinema hall, giving viewers are very immersive experience. In fact, you feel like being part of the film. That’s precisely why horror movies are 3 times scarier when viewed on a VR headset. Besides fear, the anxiety and suspense also increase manifold on VR platforms. Addiction is a little challenge when viewing a movie via a VR headset. After enjoying a movie on a VR headset, you will find watching films on conventional TV sets quite boring. Visiting Places through VR Doesn’t looking around the world on Google Maps sound compulsive? Now spare a thought for the overwhelming feeling you’ll get when you would be able to do the same through your own eyes—kind of! With world travel being a pretty expensive undertaking, immersive virtual reality technology comes across as an amazing alternative, providing you the opportunity to experience some of the world’s exotic places without spending a lot of money. Only by downloading free VR apps and buying a headset for your Android or iPhone smartphone, can you turn your phone into a virtual reality device and can find the 360-degree videos of different cities. Virtual reality also comes in handy for the real estate agent or owner to provide a virtual tour of the property to their clients and help them visualize the architectural plan better. Virtual reality also allows the customer to get a 3-D view of the house they are planning to buy or rent. Virtual Shops While online shopping is a boon for many, one of its drawbacks is missing the joy of navigating the aisles and picking up your favorite products. Virtual reality is the solution. All you have to do is put your VR goggles on and you will instantly be transported to a virtual shop, which is actually customized for you. Health Care Industry The health industry is constantly introducing new and cutting-edge technologies to improve patients’ lives. And virtual reality will further help surgeons and medical experts with a highly interactive, accurately modelled samples through a VR interface. Virtual reality also helps treat people with mental and psychological issues by creating calming environments and simulations. A lot of marines and soldiers, when they get back from battlefields, have to deal with post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), and virtual reality is a great tool to threat them. The technology will be used to help them get over the stress and begin to lead a normal live. Teaching People To Fly Following the rapid growth of virtual and augmented reality devices in the home-entertainment market, this fully immersive technology is now making its way into the aviation industry. Flight simulators already help pilots learn to fly, but with virtual technology, they could really do something much more remarkable and realistic to further hone their skills. Eve: Valkyrie—a game that lets you take the role of a spaceship pilot—immediately comes to mind. The level of excitement the game, which seemed real to the core, brought reflects the scope of virtual reality even in the field of aviation. Thanks to the exponential growth of the virtual reality (VR) market in the last few years, aircraft manufacturers and airlines such as Boeing, Lufthansa and Air France are heavily investing in virtual reality. Improving Quality Of Life Disability or poverty can take away everything from an individual, depriving them of a quality life in which they can explore, experience the wonders of the world, and live happily. But like the able-bodied or the privileged, they too deserve to live well. VR offers a solution to the woes of such people, allowing them to enjoy the best things in the world and live their lives to the fullest. There’s nothing that can be more comforting and satisfying than this. The cloud revolution has reshaped the technology landscape, with most businesses now leveraging cloud capabilities in some form. However, moving to the cloud is a complex undertaking that requires careful planning and execution. This is where experienced cloud consulting partners provide invaluable guidance and support. As trusted advisors, they can help navigate the intricacies of cloud transformation and ensure its success. Cloud consultants bring deep expertise developed from assisting myriad organizations across industries with their cloud journeys. Through a proven, structured approach they are able to methodically guide clients from readiness evaluation to ongoing optimization. By investing in a strategic relationship with a reputed consulting firm, businesses can circumvent common pitfalls and extract the maximum value from cloud investments. 1. Evaluating Cloud Readiness Comprehensively The first step in any cloud initiative is to accurately assess an organization's preparedness. However, evaluating technical, financial and cultural readiness involves analyzing vast amounts of contextual data. Consultants leverage specialized tools and proven frameworks to provide an objective, thorough analysis of a business's people, processes and technology. A comprehensive evaluation considers factors like legacy applications, infrastructure dependencies, security posture, connectivity capabilities, governance processes and skills availability. It identifies both constraints and opportunities for leveraging the cloud. Consultants evaluate multiple internal and external data sources, conduct workshops with stakeholders, assess maturity levels against benchmarks and document a comprehensive report of findings. 2. Developing a Customized Cloud Strategy Leveraging insights from readiness assessments, consultants then help devise optimal cloud adoption strategies aligned with long-term business goals. They incorporate contextual inputs around growth plans, innovation objectives, budgetary cycles and risk appetites into strategic recommendations. Consultants draft multi-year roadmaps detailing the type and sequencing of workloads to shift along with capability development stages. The strategy defines target cloud operating models and adoption personas for functions such as development, HR or finance teams. Hybrid and multi-cloud usage scenarios tailored to evolving business priorities are also outlined. By gaining board-level buy-in, consultants ensure strategies are actionable and future-proofed. 3. Selecting the Right Cloud Deployment Options With options spanning Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS), Platform as a Service (PaaS) and Software as a Service (SaaS), selecting optimal deployment models requires nuanced evaluations. Cloud consultants assess how workloads can be refactored to take advantage of native cloud services versus merely migrating "as-is" applications. They test-run sample prototypes on multiple cloud platforms to benchmark capabilities and pricing models against defined non-functional requirements for aspects like performance, scalability, security and compliance. Based on exhaustive comparisons, consultants recommend the best-fit platform and deployment combinations (public, private or hybrid clouds) aligned with the strategy. This optimized model selection accelerates time-to-value. 4. Planning and Executing Migrations Responsibly Migration planning involves scoping workload dependencies, refactoring for portability, developing runbooks for operations and contingencies, and finalizing test and validation criteria. Consultants assist with developing detailed project charters defining prerequisites, risks, budgets, timelines and success metrics for phased migrations. They help establish center of excellence (CoE) teams and implement configuration management databases and automation playbooks leveraging tools like Terraform or Cloud Formation for repeatable deployments. Consultants oversee proof-of-concepts to validate refactoring adequacy and actual migration execution. Change management is ensured through communications, training and adoption frameworks. Business continuity is prioritized through meticulous testing, rollback plans and staged cutovers. 5. Integrating Cloud Ecosystems Seamlessly Consultants bridge existing IT landscapes comprising on-premises solutions with adopted SaaS/PaaS/IaaS offerings. They assist with integrations at various levels – app to app, user to app, inter-cloud and with edge systems – using APIs, containers, microservices and integration platforms. Industry-specific data mappings and AI/ML capabilities are leveraged for domain-centric solutions. Central identity directories, security controls, monitoring dashboards and event management systems are integrated under a common governance framework for security and compliance. This aligned cloud ecosystem eliminates data silos while optimizing costs and complexities of point integrations. Access to pools of cloud integration specialists and accelerators further streamlines processes. 6. Optimizing Ongoing Cloud Operations and Management Consultants establish IT service management (ITSM) frameworks mapping business and technical KPIs to cloud-native metrics for performance benchmarking and cost monitoring. Security posture assessments identify risks proactively and remediation is planned. Automated logging, event correlation using SIEMs and compliance auditing ensure regulatory mandates are met. Cloud Cost Optimization (CCO) reviews analyze past spending patterns alongside usage/demand projections to re-architect for economies of scale. Tools like Cloud Health and Cloud Checkr are leveraged to track consumption across accounts and entitlement management while gaining insights to optimize VM sizing/configurations, spot instances usage and rightsizing instances during off-hours. Staff skills and processes too are continuously optimized through consulting-led training engagements and mentorships. 7. Empowering Speed and Agility with Cloud Native Innovation Implementing a co-innovation model, consultants work with centralized cloud centers of excellence and governed product/project teams to leverage emerging technologies. Workshops explore concepts around server less and codeless platforms, edge/5G use cases, unified data fabric implementations and opportunities in AI/ML, blockchain and quantum computing. Early pilots and prototypes help validate ideas incorporating cloud-native design principles, while ensuring regulatory, security and operational viability. Success stories, hurdles encountered and learnings are documented for continuous reference. Consulting partners thus energize a culture of empowered, risk-taking innovation aligned to business visions long into the digital future. Summary In summary, a guided cloud transformation anchored by deep cloud consulting capabilities improves odds of success manifold by incorporating best practices, avoiding pitfalls and overcoming adoption complexities methodically. As impartial, strategic advisors they consistently deliver value alongside clients on their cloud journey towards performance, agility and resilience outcomes. As a widely recognized programming language, python software development services can take your organization to a higher level. In today’s fast-paced world, most popular programs operate using Python. From Netflix and Instagram to Spotify and Reddit, each of these platforms is created using Python, making it a leading language for the future. Python Software Development Services We Offer Leveraging Python in its development, software companies improve businesses in various ways. They often create software unique to your business or integrate the python program with other technologies. Arpatech is the one-stop solution for all of your Python projects, here are some ways, we help our clients achieve perfection in their businesses. 100% Custom Python Development Our team offers custom Python development services and creates tailored software solutions for you. This approach enables us to ensure that every aspect of the software aligns with your requirements. With Python development, you also get higher scalability and optimized performance, as every feature and function is designed specifically to suit the needs of your customer. Python Web Application Development If you want to create a versatile and powerful web application, Python web development services are highly recommended. Python’s extensive libraries and frameworks, and simple readability makes it the best-suited choice for web development. What people want in web development is scalability, security, rapid development, and customization, all of which you get with this forward-moving language. The frameworks you get include Django, Flask, and Pyramid that enable us to build highly complex web modules that deliver high quality user interface and experience. Python Mobile Application Development If you want to drive business growth and enhance user engagement, python mobile application development is the way to go. It uses strong frameworks like Kivy, BeeWare and PyQt to develop versatile software that effortlessly run on multiple devices using only one code base. This, not only accelerates your time-to-market but also makes the development cost effective, as you get a robust and feature-rich application in one go. Python API Development and Application Focus on creating scalable APIs with Python development that serve as the backbone to modern applications. With python’s powerful frameworks like FastAPI and Flask, we create APIs that enable your software to connect and communicate seamlessly. Our Python APIs are developed for performance and security, allowing you to manage data, integrate third-party services and improve the functionality of your apps with ease Cloud-based Python Application Development We leverage cloud computing services like AWS, Azure or Google Cloud to develop scalable solutions that can easily adapt to today’s changing demands. Python’s compatibility with various cloud services makes it the efficient choice for integration and development with cloud infrastructure. So, let’s streamline your operations today with cloud-based python app development! Python Enterprise Solutions We are dedicated to providing seamless solutions for complex software requests. Therefore, we leverage python’s versatile libraries to build a wide range of enterprise applications. From comprehensive ERP solutions to data analytics platforms, we integrate python into your architecture and deliver innovative yet easy-to-maintain applications. Python IoT Solutions With the help of python, we develop solutions that connect and manage a number of IoT devices. From sensors to smart appliances and industrial equipment, python’s extensive support for network communication and data processing allows real-time data analytics, that allows businesses to control and monitor all of their IoT systems efficiently. Build your IoT application today and get real-time data within seconds that will makes your business operations seamless. Arpatech Python Software Development Process We have developed a cost-effective and time-efficient python software development services process that our experts at Arpatech use to design and build high-quality software that meets customer expectations during production and beyond. This includes: Planning We sit with the client, ask them their ideas and passions about the project and then suggest the best way to move forward. Designing Our team of expert designers develop a blue-print of your software and present it for approval and reconsiderations. After the final design is selected, our developers take on the reins. Building Arpatech python software developers are best in their fields, we consult with the client throughout the building process and when the final product is ready, we move on to the next phase. Testing Custom python software development services would be incomplete without the testing, we test every aspect of your software and ensure its usability and functionality until the last minute. Deployment and Maintenance With deployment comes maintenance, no matter how minor an issue arises, our team of experts is ready to resolve it all. Whether you want changes or an upgrade to your python application, contact us and we’ll take on your project today! Get Arpatech Python Development Services Benefits of python development When it comes to your business, there are a number of benefits that python development can offer you, some of them are: Rapid Development Python’s simple syntax and comprehensive libraries enable rapid development that reduces that time-to-market for products and services. This benefits startups and large companies alike as they need to quickly adapt to the changing market needs. Data Analysis and Machine Learning Python is a widely known language for data science that allows businesses to utilize big data and machine learning for insights, predictions, and automation. Scalability This programming language has the ability to handle complex applications and scale them which efficiently makes it ideal for businesses that anticipate growth. Cost-Effectiveness With the availability of its open-source libraries, businesses can build robust applications without investing heavily in proprietary tools or extensive coding efforts. Automation Python excels in automating repetitive tasks, which can lead to significant time and cost savings. Businesses can automate everything from data entry to report generation without any problem. With the help of Python development, organizations can build versatile, efficient and innovative solutions that align with their business and strategic goals. Frequently Asked Questions What is Python development service? Python Development service includes creating customized software solutions that include mobile and web applications, APis, and Data Analysis tools with the help of Python, the leading programming language. Python’s flexibility and comprehensive libraries, enable us to create solutions that meet all of your business requirements. Is Python faster than Java? Where Python offers a significant advantage of being easier to learn and use, Java takes the benefit of being faster. Is Python the best programming language? Python is widely praised for its readability, simplicity, and versatility, making it a great choice for many software development projects. Do you provide python web application development service in dubai? Yes, we offer python web application development service in Dubai, US, UK, and worldwide. We have a diverse portfolio with customers in different regions. What are the disadvantages of Python? Python has some disadvantages, including slower execution speeds compared to compiled languages like C++ or Java, higher memory consumption due to its dynamic typing, and limited support for mobile app development. Get your Free Consultation Now by contacting us today! If someone had said that automotive software development services would be controlling the mobility industry in the coming years and people would be looking forward to self-driving cars, no one would believe them. But here we are today! Not only is software steering the car in the right direction, but today, it’s a big part of the automotive industry, managing and controlling different processes and components. Automotive Software Development Services We Offer The industry is continuously growing at a steady rate which is said to cross $80 billion by 2030. However, when it comes to software development for automotive industry, it requires the highest standards of precision and reliability. At Arpatech, you’ll find that our experts meet all your requirements and expectations, making us the one-stop solution for every automotive project you have. Automotive Software Product Development From keyless vehicle access control systems to self-drive functionality, trust Arpatech to take the first steps into your automotive software development and design highly functional products that will upgrade all of your vehicles to the latest technology. Automotive Web Application Development Businesses streamline their operations with the right web application development services in the automobile industry. From improving customer interactions to inventory management, and increasing sales, web applications are a big part of fueling your business forward. Automotive Mobile App Development We design and develop lightweight automotive mobile apps that enable safe driving experiences, allow vehicle monitoring and track overall car performance. We also build telemetry apps using machine learning tech that helps you identify any anomaly and manage in-care experiences. Automotive API Development and Application Integration of robust API is the essence of our automotive API Development. Our developers ensure that our APIs enable efficient communication between third-party services and in-vehicle systems which will offer you real-time data exchange, keeping your vehicle up-to-date and connected. Cloud-Based Automotive Application Development Connect your car with all of its high-tech features by computing it on the cloud. With cloud-based automotive applications, you will be able to conduct real-time data analysis, mitigate leniency, and enable fast in-car operations. Automotive Enterprise Software Development With automotive enterprise software development, you get custom ERP solutions that enable you to manage the supply chain, use predictive maintenance software driven by data analytics, and leverage cloud tech to connect vehicles and the organization. Automotive IoT Software Development You need multi-functional systems in your automobile business? Utilize the power of Arpatech’s IoT applications that enable connected smart self-driving vehicles that are safe and offer optimal performance every time. <a href="/software-development" class="back-home-btn btn rounded-button mb-4">Get Arpatech Automotive Software Development Service</a><br/> Arpatech Automotive Software Development Process Meets Your Business Needs Working in the software industry for more than a decade, we ensure that our clients get automotive software excellence in every project. Collaborate with our experienced developers and experience innovation that comes with the latest technologies: Rental Agencies With a rich car rental management system, you can keep track of all of your cars, enable a centralized system for your customers and optimize fleet management, all in one software. We help you streamline your business with the help of tech. Dealerships With custom automotive software development, you can enhance the productivity of your dealership business. Whether it’s accounting, inventory or a DMS platform, our software helps you automate processes, ultimately driving traffic to your store. Get Original Equipment Manufactured Automotive software development at Arpatech enables effective collaboration between all units. Build strategic relationships with tier-1 suppliers and optimize operations with tools that leverage data analytics and machine learning algorithms. Auto Parts Stores With innovative online stores and automated processes, sell more cars and their parts with minimal effort. Leverage our automotive software development and manage inventory, workforce and clients all within one comprehensive application. FAQs How much does automotive software development cost? The cost of automotive software development can vary from project to project based on numerous factors like scope, complexity and technology stack. Small projects can cost a few hundred to thousand dollars, but if your project requires complex systems like advanced AI integration, use of IoT or cloud integration, it might cost more. What is automotive software development? Automotive software development involves creating specialized software solutions for the automobile/ automotive industry. This can include applications for vehicle control systems, predictive maintenance, fleet management, and autonomous driving. These solutions enhance vehicle performance, safety, and connectivity. What software is used in automotive? Different types of software are used in automotive, including but not limited to embedded software for controlling vehicle functions, diagnostic tools for maintenance, and CAD (Computer-Aided Design) software for designing vehicle components. Some other popular software platforms and tools include MATLAB, Simulink, AUTOSAR, and various custom-built solutions customized according to your business requirements. Today, our goal is to achieve faster delivery, better quality and overall reliable software development. Implementing DevOps in software development allows you to do just that, adapt to the changing customer demands and business requirements. However, integrating DevOps can be challenging, it requires you to change many aspects of development from skills and processes to tools and knowledge. So, how can you successfully implement DevOps into your organization’s programming structure? Arpatech Best Practices for Implementing DevOps There’s no one-way track to DevOps implementation. At Arpatech, our software developers follow the best DevOps practices that reap the full benefits of DevOps and ensure that we provide the best software applications to our customers and partners. Instead of combing the internet, we have done the leg work for you and here are the DevOps best practices that you can also successfully implement in your organization. Carry Out a CI/ CD Pipeline Adopting Continuous Integration and Continuous Deployment (CI/CD) practices is one of the most foundational pillars of implementing DevOps. Set up CI triggers within Azure Pipelines to automatically start building and testing your code whenever you commit changes to your version control system. With Azure DevOps best practices, you are able to validate your codebase constantly, enabling you to detect issues early and mitigate any challenges. When you integrate CD into Azure to automatically deploy approved packages to your staging or production environments. This approach lets you quickly release new features and updates, getting them to market faster. Integrate Agile Methodologies As the DevOps process is iterative and fast-paced, integrating Agile project management methodologies like Kanban and Scrum are well-suited to its nature. When you adopt the Agile project management system, it enables you to divide larger projects into smaller more controllable sections that deliver value to your consumers. Moreover, this method also promotes collaboration and communication between your teams which helps to identify and solve all bugs and issues quickly. Ensure Continuous Monitoring If you want optimal performance and stability in all your software, implement real-time monitoring as part of your development cycle. With this DevOps best practice, you can consistently collect and review data which enables you to resolve issues faster and make informed decisions simultaneously. This also enables organizations to see the direction of their product and service, allowing them to fix any small issues before they become bigger problems. Include Automated Testing Automation in quality testing allows companies to ensure the reliability of their code. Automated testing also covers a wide range of test cases that could have been missed during manual testing. With this best DevOps practice, you mitigate the risk of human error and production bugs, ultimately decreasing the deployment period and time-to-market. Implement DevOps Security Best Practices We also administer security scans and checks into our CI/CD pipelines as part of Azure DevOps security best practices. This allows the integration of security from the first phase of development and helps to detect and fix any issues before they reach the production environment. Enforcing security policies is essential, if they are not up to the standard, they can stop your deployment from processing and create obstructions in your development. This is why regularly updating your development tools can ensure all security concerns are patched up. Use the Right DevOps Tools If you want to succeed in your DevOps implementation, one of the most crucial steps is to utilize the proper DevOps tools. When talking about tools, they include all resources used in deployment, testing, code repositories and even version control systems. Therefore, when choosing your DevOps toolchain, it’s crucial to consider your organization’s needs and goals, along with the specific tasks and processes the tools will support. So, it’s important to select tools that are user-friendly and easily integrate with your existing systems. Streamline Development with Arpatech Still unsure about the choices you have, well, let’s make it easier with Arpatech’s comprehensive suite of DevOps solutions. By implementing our cloud into your DevOps workflows, you will be able to streamline your development process and optimize the overall operational proficiency as well! FAQs What are the best DevOps practices? The best DevOps practices include as follows: Continuous Integration and Continuous Deployment (CI/CD), Automated testing Infrastructure as code (IAC) Monitoring and logging A collaborative culture between development and operations teams What are the 7 C’s of DevOps? The 7C’s of DevOps are: Culture Collaboration Communication Continuous Integration Continuous Delivery Continuous Testing Continuous Monitoring What is a key practice of DevOps? A key practice of DevOps is continuous integration and continuous deployment (CI/CD). This involves frequently integrating code changes into a shared repository and automatically deploying those changes to production or staging environments What are the 3 P’s of DevOps? The 3 P’s of DevOps are: People Processes Product We develop for the people, implement efficient and advanced processes and then focus on delivering high-quality products. Software engineering teams are always looking for ways to improve and speed up the process of creating and evolving software programs. One popular strategy is DevOps, which is an engineering technique that brings together the development and operations aspects. In traditional engineering companies, the development and operations teams are often separated, and this can lead to conflicts between them. Developers are focused on creating and releasing more code, while operations engineers are responsible for preventing errors and deploying software without bugs. This situation often results in operations teams acting as gatekeepers, slowing down the deployment process. DevOps Culture Best Practices DevOps Engineers address this challenge by promoting collaboration and teamwork between the development and operations/quality assurance teams. In DevOps best practices, there is no need for a gatekeeper because the same group of people is responsible for the entire software development life cycle. To effectively leverage the benefits of DevOps, organizations are increasingly turning to DevOps service providers. However, building a strong DevOps culture is necessary for achieving long-term success. So, here, we will discuss the best practices a company needs to build a DevOps culture. 1. Setting a Solid Foundation In order to appear flexible, establishing a solid foundation is important for any business, and this can be achieved by combining cultural and technological practices. Sometimes, people tend to ignore the significance of cultural practices that foster empathy, connection, and shared goals. However, these practices, along with technical practices that speed up the delivery of valuable results and increase their frequency, are crucial for organizations that strive to consistently innovate and progress. 2. Build a Strong Team The DevOps team is the essential building block for all other endeavors. The team’s ability to work together directly impacts their effectiveness in creating and deploying applications. Each team member must have a willingness to collaborate and communicate with others, regardless of whether they are developers, testers, operations professionals, or security experts. Everyone must share a mindset that recognizes the value of working together towards common goals. Furthermore, a diverse team contributes to a culture of collaboration. Having team members from various backgrounds and experiences encourages individuals to think outside the box when faced with problems and find solutions. Different perspectives, unique insights, and innovative thinking are brought to the table by individuals with diverse backgrounds, enhancing the team’s overall capabilities. 3. Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery (CI/CD) You must embrace the concept of Azure DevOps Best Practices of Continuous Integration and Delivery (CI/CD). This involves regularly adding small portions of code to a central repository, which helps developers collaborate effectively. By doing this, the repository consistently remains in a good state as you introduce manageable changes. Continuous Integration (CI) ensures early identification of errors and enhances code quality because these small code changes undergo automated builds and tests to validate them. Once the code is integrated, the next step is to deploy it to our environment. Continuous Delivery (CD) involves continuously preparing the code for deployment after each small code change. This simplifies the deployment process and provides developers with an automated and straightforward way to release the code into production. 4. Use Automation Encouraging automation is another important strategy to prioritize. By automating tasks that are repetitive and consume a lot of time, you can free up valuable time for more important and strategic work while minimizing the risk of human mistakes. Embracing tools that automate processes allows teams to concentrate on work that adds value and can greatly influence the DevOps culture. There are numerous tools available that can automate tasks related to building, testing, and deploying software. 5. Use the Right DevOps Tools Using appropriate DevOps tools is essential for a successful DevOps culture. To enhance software quality and expedite the delivery process, it is important to have the right tools for each stage of the DevOps lifecycle. It is recommended to learn more about selecting suitable DevOps tools and assessing their functionalities for each phase of the DevOps lifecycle. 6. Aim for Customer Satisfaction The objective of DevOps best practices is to meet the expectations of customers, regardless of whether you utilize the conventional waterfall model or embrace a comprehensive DevOps approach. Modern SaaS customers have specific requirements, such as frequent updates and swift delivery of new features. DevOps enables the streamlining of the release process, making it easier to promptly provide customers with the latest functionalities. This efficiency is achieved by having the same individuals manage code releases and develop new code, facilitating faster feature delivery to customers. 7. Promote a DevOps Approach To build any culture, you need to establish a mindset to work for the process. In order to employ DevOps culture best practices, you are required to shift your mindset. Encourage individuals to adopt a DevOps mindset, which emphasizes shared responsibility, ownership, and continuous collaboration. Promote the values of trust, respect, and empathy within teams. By nurturing a DevOps mindset, organizations can overcome resistance to change and foster a culture of innovation and excellence. 8. Emphasize on Security and Compliance Security and compliance should be an integral part of any Azure DevOps security best practices. DevOps engineers should prioritize incorporating security practices and compliance requirements into the software development lifecycle. This includes conducting regular security assessments, implementing secure coding practices, and integrating security testing throughout the development process. By embedding security and compliance from the early stages, organizations can minimize risks and ensure the integrity of their systems. 9. Obtain Regular Feedback Regular feedback ensures that DevOps service providers and team members have all the necessary information on time to carry out their tasks effectively. From a development perspective, this means that the team is immediately alerted to any failures in the development process. It also means that developers are provided with clear and comprehensive results from code tests as quickly as possible. From a product management viewpoint, the team is informed about any issues with production, performance deficiencies, or reported bugs. 10. Measure and Track Key Metrics To gauge the effectiveness of your DevOps as service practices and culture, establish key performance indicators (KPIs) and metrics. Measure metrics such as deployment frequency, lead time, mean time to recovery, and customer satisfaction. Regularly track these metrics and use the insights to identify areas for improvement, set benchmarks, and drive accountability within teams. The Bottom Line Establishing a best DevOps practices in 2024 is extremely important for organizations that want to make the most of DevOps and enhance their software delivery capabilities. DevOps service providers have a significant role to play in assisting businesses in building this culture. DevOps is more than just using tools and following certain practices. It represents a change in the way we work and requires dedication, commitment, and a mindset of constantly getting better. By following these ten best practices, both organizations and DevOps service providers can establish a solid foundation for a successful DevOps journey. Statistics report that cloud computing is at an all-time high and is expected to grow exponentially throughout the years. But growing demands mean utilizing expensive cloud tools, so cloud cost optimization is very much needed. The market value of the cloud computing market was valued at USD 587.7 billion in 2023, projected to grow to $676.29 billion by the end of 2024, and is estimated to expand to $2,291.59 billion by 2032. As these numbers show the demand for cloud operation, adhering to these requirements also means a heavy cloud bill. Cloud Cost Optimization In order to grow your business, you need to know which cost-effective cloud resources need to be allocated to which department. Cloud cost optimization ensures just that. With the right resources working on different workloads and applications, you are able to balance costs, performance, and security requirements that ensure that your cloud investments are working appropriately and optimally. Each workload in a cloud deployment is unique, with evolving requirements over time. To optimize cloud costs, it’s important to establish performance benchmarks for each workload, utilizing domain expertise and real-time operational data. The goal of optimization is to lower costs while maintaining the required performance levels. So, what best practices can we use to bring down the cost? Top 5 Cloud Cost Optimization Best Practices 1. Assess and Track Cloud Usage Cloud cost assessment is the cornerstone of successful cost management strategies. Start by carefully tracking and analyzing your cloud expenses. When you have enough insights into service usage, identify key cost drivers, and observe user behavior trends. This essential step enables you to uncover opportunities for cost optimization, such as unused resources or services. 2. Integrate Automation in Cloud Cost Management Strategies Automation takes your cloud services to another level. It is a powerful tool that can help you manage cloud costs efficiently. It can assist you in identifying cost-saving opportunities, streamline billing, and automate resource provisioning. Automation can also monitor resource usage, detecting underutilized resources that can be repurposed or terminated. 3. Employ the Latest Cloud Cost Optimization Tools Utilizing cost control tools that offer insights into usage patterns, establish budget limits, and highlight opportunities for improvement. These tools are designed to assist businesses in monitoring expenses, identifying inefficiencies, and implementing cost-saving strategies. 4. Strategize for Cost Optimization When you integrate cost optimization strategies, after utilizing the insights you get from monitoring the systems, you can implement discounts, identify spot instances, and scale down from adding unused services. These strategies will enable you to assess your company’s expenses, identify areas of waste and inefficiency, simplify processes, and automate tasks whenever possible. 5. Cloud Cost Forecasting for Cost Enhancement If you’re just starting out with cloud services, then cloud forecasting can help you optimize costs from the beginning. It offers valuable insights into future expenses, enabling more precise budgeting and planning. This helps prevent unexpected costs and highlights opportunities for savings. Make Your Business Better with Cloud Cost Management Cloud cost optimization enhances business efficiency by reducing waste, streamlining processes, and automating tasks. It enables more accurate budgeting, prevents unexpected expenses, and uncovers cost-saving opportunities. This leads to smarter resource management and improved financial performance. Partner up with Arpatech and let’s work on your business’ cloud cost optimization today! The top managed cloud services have significantly changed the worldwide landscape for the IT industry. Many are still oblivious to the importance of cloud managed services, their providers, and how they have transformed business operations. So, here we will give you a brief overview of the managed cloud services for a clearer understanding. Let’s begin. What is a Managed Cloud Service? Basically, managed cloud services give any business access to cloud computing networks without them having to learn the cloud’s infrastructure and its accompanying tools. They offer complete or even partial cloud management resources to clients. Some of the management tasks may include configurations, security, migration, maintenance, optimizations, and more. In any cloud adoption cycle, there are public, private, and hybrid cloud environments that you can access for managed cloud services. Managed cloud services enable a business to ensure the cloud resources run flawlessly. These services allow the initial adoption or can be continuously provided. Working in managed cloud services gives a collaborative process to the provider as well. How do cloud management services help an organization? Workflow automation facilitates operations as it manages cloud instances without human interference. Cloud analysis allows the tracking of cloud workloads and better user experiences. Cloud services provide flexibility which is achieved when IT experts create and access new cloud resources, monitor the usage and cost, and make proper adjustments to resource allocation. Cloud managed services cannot show results without qualified IT experts. With the knowledge of proper tools and best practices, the cloud management goals of the business can be easily met. Not every cloud management service can be best suited for every organization so they create a contract for services that include counseling and execution of the cloud resources to ensure that configuration is performed in the right manner. What Tasks Are Included in Managed Cloud Services? Managed cloud services include a wide variety of tasks such as Hosting Implementation On-demand engineering Round-the-clock help desk support Management of operations When these tasks are taken care of by managed cloud services, they do not need manual help. Then, the IT team can focus on other complex matters that can help businesses thrive. What is a Managed Cloud Service Provider (MCSP)? An MCSP is a vendor that offers cloud managed services. These vendors are either directly connected to the cloud resources or use a third-party operator to do so. MCSPs offer several cloud services typically after subscription. They can act as a substitute for in-house cloud IT or as a substitute for the in-house team. A managed cloud service provider helps the client to decide the IT functions they can manage themselves and those that can be done in-house. Some of the best Managed Cloud Service Provider includes Microsoft Azure Google Cloud Platform (GCP) Amazon Web Services (AWS) IBM Cloud Oracle Cloud Key Factors to Consider When Opting for a Managed Cloud Service Provider Choosing an MCSP for your business can be challenging and it may be difficult for you to understand the qualities that you require in an MCSP. A few questions that you can help with in this regard are. How familiar they are with the industry’s tools and workflows. The cloud services they have worked on. Security measures they take to secure their clients’ data and how they protect them from being compromised. If there are any built-in security solutions they provide. If there are any compliance regulations the MCSP provides or if it offers any audit compliance. Do these managed cloud service providers use proprietary or open-source tools for the management of services? How do they receive notifications or alerts of changes, problems, maintenance, and more? What are the Benefits of a Managed Cloud Service Provider? 1. Optimization of Resources MCSPs not only provide managed cloud services but also help their clients to determine the best fit of cloud services based on the business, workload, requirements, budget, and more. The MCSPs also help optimize performances within the right pricing. Some vendors also provide performance reports of your and suggest how the configurations can be improved. 2. Cybersecurity An MCSP provides the security of the data built inside the network. Cloud security is a complex process and the network is always vulnerable to cyberattacks. Therefore, MCSPs provide an extra layer of security as they have the right knowledge necessary to keep the cloud network safe from every malicious or unauthorized access. 3. Round the Clock Support With an MCSP onboard, a 24/7 support is certain. The provider with his or her skillset will ensure to be available at all times and address your queries or issues that you might face in the network. With quick support at any time, you are expected to find quick solutions for any detected issue. 4. Long-Term Investment A qualified MCSP can be a good investment for any business. Using an MCSCP will allow the client to save money in the longer run. There are fewer operational expenses incurred in maintaining cloud infrastructure. The only job of the client is to make regular payments to the service provider and he or she does the rest. 5. Recovery of Loss When it comes to cloud networks, one must be careful about any unforeseen circumstances. Therefore, a recovery plan to retrieve data is a safe bet in any disastrous situation. A managed cloud service provider provides support in the recovery plan so that even if there is minimal inconvenience, the plan can be followed and save the network from bigger problems. The Bottom Line Companies are moving to managed cloud services because it helps in the growth of the business. These services are becoming popular and they are developed with the idea of facilitating enterprises in maximizing the benefits of cloud computing. Managed cloud services also offer agility and scalability to the business and allow them to be more responsive and competitive, all that is required to make a great profit. 2023 is the year of innovation and creative ideas! Digital trends have transformed website features and web designs. These design trends help the websites create their own identities, brand persona, and perspectives. Designers use creative web design trends and ideas to develop a connection with the modern audience. A good site that does its job well has a major contribution of web designs that make it appealing enough to grab audience’s attention. Creative web designs [are not just about graphics or design layouts. In 2023, it is all about content, optimization, aesthetics, and modern trends. So, we will discuss some of the web design ideas that are bound to change the game. 8 Web Designs Trends That Are a Game-Changer 1. Parallax Scrolling Parallax Scrolling is one of the popular trends for animations that make web pages appear more dramatic and aesthetically pleasing. This technique changes the foreground elements faster than the background elements and shows depth and realism. This technique is mostly used in full-width applications with image, video, or texture imagery. In 2023, parallax scrolling and creative web design will definitely add more value to simple web design development services because the subtle effect of this method makes the content more engaging. 2. Thumb-Friendly Mobile Navigation Your website has to be user-friendly and attractive. But that is not enough anymore! Alongside, a user-friendly feature of the website, 2023 brings more advancement and excitement to the web design development services. This year is more focused on thumb-friendly mobile navigation. When we talk about thumb-friendliness, we talk about how you hold your phone: your fingers wrapped around the back of your phone for a strong grip with your thumb doing all the work. Not anymore! With thumb-friendly mobile navigation, the navigation bar, menu, and contact buttons are in the place where your thumb can easily reach and you don’t have to stretch it all over the screen i.e. the center of the phone screen. This technique will make it comfortable for you to open and navigate your website on phones, making the movement smooth and easy by using one hand. Many leading website design and development agencies are integrating this feature into their website to get more conversions. 3. Animated Cursor Animation is always a creative method of winning your audience and customizing users’ experiences. So, how about a little animation on the cursor to make the website more interactive? 2023 web trends include cursor-triggered animations that give site visitors a fun experience and may positively impact their behavior on scrolling and purchasing. The animated cursor is expected to be subtle yet unique so that site visitors can have their on-click demands fulfilled in different manners. 4. Quality Video Content One brilliant video is better than a dozen texts! Videos are very engaging and there is no doubt that people love videos as they keep them hooked to the screens. It is one of the best marketing tools online that enhances the outlook of any website. As great as videos are, they need to be creative as well! A mundane, long, or boring video interests no one. 2023 is the year of smart videos where you make attractive, high-quality, and interactive videos that help your site gain more traffic. The videos need to be well-thought with respect to your brand’s message and current animation trends. Instead of embedding a YouTube video on your website, you must work on creating one from the scratch with attention-grabbing and creative web design ideas. These videos can be a fun visual representation of your business. As a business owner, you can hire a video animator from a leading web design and development agency to create visual magic on your website. 5. AI-Based Color Palette Gone are the days when designers would get into small details of adjusting color palettes to adjust a comfortable contrast. So, now you have software programs to help you get inspiration from their color palette library. If you got a specific color on your mind, you can use the software programs and specify the color on to it and it will generate a color palette using Artificial Intelligence (AI) according to your chosen color. You can also use an image for the color palette reference to generate the palette for you. 6. Full-Screen Content Do you know why billboards catch your attention? It is because they have full-height content enhanced by textual creativity. Similarly, you can catch your site visitors’ attention right on the homepage if you present a full-height message with engaging content. It will act as an on-screen hero displaying a distraction-free message. This technique is relevant for 2023 as it gives you the opportunity to present your brand’s message via a strong story-telling skills on the homepage. The content can contain your brand’s message, your tagline or slogan, or anything that you want them to remember about your brand. You can also hire a leading website design development agency to create a website for you and incorporate full-screen content into it. 7. Voice-Oriented Interface Alexa, what is the temperature right now? Yes, just like that access information has changed! Gone are the days when we typed our queries into Google. The voice-activated interface is taking over and the websites need this emerging feature. You can combine this trending method with creative web design to get better results. 8. Small Animations Small animations or micro-interactions on a website are a small element to make it interactive and it is a must-have for any website in 2023. You must have seen many examples of these small animations on websites especially when the pop of color appears on the screen when you click on anything or when the color of the link changes when you place a cursor over it. These creative web design ideas can give your website a much-needed boost as it makes websites more captivating and interactive. The Bottom Line These are some of the many web design ideas that can work wonders for your website. 2023 should be all about ingenious techniques and innovative ideas for your brand so that you achieve all your business goals. Moreover, many leading website design and development agencies can help you keep your site fresh and provide the modern and trendy website design development services you may need. The transformation of mobile applications is an integral part of a smart marketing technique that companies must adopt. With the excessive use of smartphones and mobile apps in recent times, mobile application development has become a profitable domain. As such, it is important to carefully consider the key factors when you hire mobile app developers because they can impact the success of your business. There must be illegibility criteria to hire a mobile app developer and we will list down 10 factors that you should be mindful of before you decide to get one on board. 1. Technical Skills When it comes to custom mobile app development, experience is not the only thing that counts, the skillset is extremely important to consider. It is the expertise of the mobile app developer that can make or break the project. When hiring one, you must have a good idea about his or her technical expertise. Some of the prominent expertise to look for include the developer’s understanding of different platforms and methodologies used in app development such as Agile, Waterfall, and Scrum. During the interview, you can ask them how well they are aware of the latest versions of android mobile apps development service and iOS mobile apps development services. Moreover, you must ensure that they are technically sound in user experience design. 2. Cost and budget The cost of hiring mobile app developers can vary widely depending on several factors, including their skills, experience, and location. You want to ensure that you find a mobile app developer that fits within your budget, while still providing the quality and expertise you need to achieve success. You can consider developers who offer flexible pricing options, such as hourly or project-based pricing. If you have good negotiation skills, you may get a genius on board easily but you have to make sure that before you start your hunt, you have decided on a budget for the service provider. It will help you to hire the right mobile app developer at the designated budget. 3. Cooperative Collaboration Mobile app development is a collaborative process that involves many different stakeholders, including project managers, designers, and developers. You have to ensure that when you hire mobile app developers, they are able to effectively communicate and collaborate with all stakeholders because the success of your project depends on it. 4. Past Projects The portfolio and past projects give a better idea of the credibility of any mobile application development agency or service provider. Look for a developer who holds technical certifications or has attended recent workshops, and has hands-on experience with a good knowledge of the two operating systems. For an Android mobile app development service, they must be proficient in languages such as JAVA, Kotlin, C#, Python, and C++. For an iOS mobile app development service, make sure they have knowledge of Swift, Objective-C, Flutter, and C#. You can either go for a developer who is proficient in multiple languages or one who specializes in a common language like C#. 5. Submission Timeline Some projects are urgent and they have a strict deadline that can’t be delayed. So, before handing over your project to any mobile app development company or service provider, make sure that you have thoroughly discussed the timeline of submission. You can question them on how long they have previously taken to complete the project. The effective way to go about any project is to mutually decide on a timeline and work on it together. You and the developer have to be on the same page when it comes to the delivery timeline to ensure no miscommunications or delays. 6. Response Time When creating a mobile app, speed and timely completion are important factors. It’s crucial to find a mobile app developer that can adapt quickly to any changes or issues that arise and that is readily available to communicate. You want to ensure that the person you choose is dedicated to meeting project deadlines and delivering exceptional results. 7. Maintaining Confidentiality The app idea is supposed to be kept confidential until it is released in the market and therefore, it has to be a secret for some time. When an idea is leaked or stolen, replicas of underdeveloped apps are released in the market resulting in landing businesses into trouble and a lot of loss. How can you avoid this from happening? You have to sign the non-disclosure agreement with the potential mobile app developer you plan to take on board. An NDA is your safety net against all malicious activities and frauds. You can hire mobile app developers and ask them to sign the agreement that states that you are the only owner of source code and design. 8. Reference Check Once you have shortlisted the candidates suitable to develop your mobile app, you must talk to their previous clients and their experience with your potential hire. Ask for references and speak with past clients to get a better understanding of the developers’ experience, skills, and quality of work. The reference check will also give you clarity on the developer’s reputation in the market. You need a developer who has a positive reputation in the industry and has received positive feedback from previous clients. This will help ensure that you are working with a reliable individual. 9. Diligence A mobile app developer must have an eye for every small or big detail. Finding small bugs or errors in a code requires diligence. This is only possible if the mobile app developer has attention to detail to ensure that you have an excellent and error-free app. 10. Future Modifications In order to stay relevant, the app must be updated with the newest features and trends from time to time. Otherwise, they get monotonous and boring for the users and may result in getting replaced. So, to keep your users interested in your app, you must bring intriguing features to keep them hooked to it. And this is what you must discuss with the developer you are going to hire for iOS mobile apps development service as well as the Android mobile app development service. Talk to him or her about their availability after the launch and the charges for modifications. The Bottom Line It is important for employers to ask key questions when hiring a mobile app developer to ensure they find the best fit for their business needs. A mobile app can serve as a significant marketing tool that helps maintain a consistent brand image across all platforms. Be sure to ask relevant questions in order to make an informed hiring decision. Digital marketing is not about posting pictures on Instagram anymore, it has become a front player in the success of any business. With the rise of digital technology and the increasing number of internet users, businesses have a greater opportunity to reach a wider audience than ever before. Here, we will give you a comprehensive insight into how digital media marketing services contribute to business growth. But first, let’s talk about what is digital marketing. What is Digital Marketing? Digital marketing is the use of digital channels such as search engines, social media platforms, emails, and websites, to promote a product or service. The main goal of digital marketing is to reach potential customers and engage with them in a way that will generate sales and increase brand awareness. One of the biggest benefits of digital marketing is the ability to reach a large and targeted audience. With the use of search engines and social media planning, businesses can reach potential customers who are looking for the products or services they offer. How Does Digital Marketing Contribute to Business Growth?. Brand Recognition Digital marketing can be one of your most powerful tools to increase brand awareness if you know how to use it to your advantage. The marketing tactics such as pay-per-click (PPC services) and social media planning allow the business to raise brand awareness and attract the audience that eventually increases sales and profit. Consumers always choose the services they trust and to build brand recognition trust is very important. With brilliant techniques, digital marketing enables you to connect with your customers and provide more visibility. So, if you wish to develop a strong brand identity and enhance your business reputation, digital marketing services can be a helpful friend. Higher Revenues A well-thought-out digital marketing plan can help your business gain higher conversion rates and eventually in earning more revenues. It can help a business grow its revenue by attracting and retaining customers through various online channels. Compared to traditional marketing methods, digital marketing techniques have given higher brand value as well. How? It provides valuable data and insights on customer behavior, allowing the business to make data-driven decisions to improve its marketing strategy and increase conversions. Enhanced Engagement With digital marketing, businesses have the ability to engage with their customers in real-time. Social media planning and platforms like Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram provide businesses with a direct line of communication with their customers, which allows them to respond to questions, comments, and feedback quickly and efficiently. This helps to build brand loyalty and a positive reputation. How? Using SEO services, the website’s visibility increases and results in attracting organic traffic and higher ranking. With the help of social media planning the business can engage the target audience via posts, stories, polls, quizzes, interactive sessions, and more. Video marketing can be used to create engaging videos that captivates the audience. Targeting the Right Audience With digital marketing services, business media can reach their target audience more accurately. By using tools like Google Analytics, businesses can track their website traffic, understand their audience’s preferences, and develop their marketing messages to reach the right people in the right time. This targeted approach can result in higher conversion rates and more efficient use of marketing resources. Global Reach Digital media marketing services provide businesses with a wider reach. With digital marketing, businesses can reach potential customers across the world, rather than being limited to a local market. The digital channels such as social media planning, PPC services, email marketing, and more, allow businesses to go global that might be difficult through traditional marketing methods. It is the Future! People are relying more on the internet to research to make purchases of products and services. By neglecting the benefits of digital marketing, many opportunities can be overlooked, especially given that your competitors may be already using it. The expected growth in digital marketing is additional proof that now is the time to start investing in it if you haven’t already. Investing in digital marketing now will enable you to take advantage of the opportunities that modern internet technologies offer. To reap the advantages of your digital marketing you must have a team of professionals or a digital media marketing agency to help reach your business goal. Cloud and DevOps services have become popular choices for enterprises’ IT infrastructure, providing organizations with more agility, scalability, and flexibility. Cloud migration is the process of moving applications, data, and other IT resources from an on-premises infrastructure to a cloud-based infrastructure. However, migrating to the cloud can be a daunting task for any enterprise, which requires a robust cloud migration strategy to ensure a smooth transition. 6 R’s of Cloud Migration Strategy The 6 R’s of Cloud Migration Strategy are a framework for organizations to determine which applications or workloads should be migrated to the cloud, and how they should be migrated. Each “R” represents a different approach to migration. The six R’s include Rehost (lift and shift) The rehost strategy is the most straightforward approach to cloud migration. It involves moving existing applications and workloads to the cloud without making any changes to their architecture or code. This is also called “lift and shift” migration because it involves lifting an application from its current environment and shifting it to the cloud. Rehosting is often the fastest and simplest migration strategy, but it may not take full advantage of cloud-native services and capabilities. Refactor (re-architect) The refactoring strategy involves making changes to the architecture or code of an application to optimize it for the cloud. This may involve breaking up monolithic applications into microservices, using cloud-native databases or storage solutions, or changing the application’s architecture to take advantage of cloud services like serverless computing. Refactoring requires more time and effort than rehosting but can result in a more optimized and cost-effective application. Revise The revise strategy involves making significant changes to an application’s code, but not its architecture, to optimize it for the cloud. This may involve updating the codebase to take advantage of cloud services or APIs, or making other changes to improve scalability or performance. The revise strategy is typically more time-consuming than rehosting, but less so than refactoring. Rebuild The rebuild strategy involves completely rebuilding an application from scratch using cloud-native tools and services. This may be necessary if an application is too tightly coupled to its current environment or if it’s easier to start from scratch than to refactor or revise. Rebuilding an application can be expensive and time-consuming, but it can also result in a more modern and scalable application. Replace The replace strategy involves replacing an existing application with a new cloud-native application that provides the same or similar functionality. This may be necessary if an application is too outdated or incompatible with cloud environments. Replacing an application can be a more time-consuming and expensive migration strategy, but it can result in a more optimized and modern application. Retire The retire strategy involves retiring an application that is no longer needed or used. This can help organizations reduce costs and simplify their IT environment. Retiring an application is typically the easiest and least expensive migration strategy. Cloud Migration Strategies for Enterprises Assess your IT infrastructure The first step to successful cloud migration is to assess your IT infrastructure. This involves understanding your organization’s current hardware and software systems, business applications, and data storage requirements. This assessment will help you identify which components are critical to your business operations and which ones can be migrated to the cloud. By evaluating your IT infrastructure, you can create a roadmap for migration, including which applications and workloads will be moved first. Security and Compliance Security is a top concern for many organizations when migrating to the cloud. It’s crucial to plan for security and compliance as part of your cloud platform build and migration strategy. This involves identifying potential security risks and implementing measures to mitigate them. It’s also important to ensure that your cloud service provider meets all compliance requirements, such as HIPAA, GDPR, and PCI DSS. You can also consider using third-party security tools to enhance your security posture and comply with regulatory requirements. Phased Migration Approach Migrating all your applications and workloads to the cloud at once can be overwhelming and disruptive to your business operations. A phased migration approach involves migrating applications and workloads in stages, starting with the ones that are less critical to your business operations. This approach allows you to test and validate your migration strategy and ensure that everything is working correctly before moving on to more critical applications and workloads. Conclusion A detailed plan, thorough testing, and plenty of resources are essential for a successful cloud migration strategy. The beginning of a cloud migration process is critical, as it carries significant risks for both business and operations. Therefore, a sound cloud platform build and migration strategy should prioritize ensuring the security of both aspects from the start and capitalize on the advanced technology of the cloud to help prosper the organization. PPC (Pay-per-click) ad services play an important role in growing a business by driving traffic and sales to a website. PPC service is the best marketing approach and is highly regarded as one of the most effective online advertising methods with several advantages. It provides fast outcomes and dependable returns and is also one of the most commonly used advertising styles. It aids in improving a company’s search engine visibility on platforms such as Google and Bing, and visitors who come through pay-per-click (PPC) are more likely to become customers. Let’s discuss what PPC advertising services are and how they aid in business growth. What is PPC? PPC services refer to a form of online advertising in which advertisers pay a fee each time someone clicks on one of their ads. When someone searches for those keywords, the search engine displays the ads of the highest bidders at the top of the search results. If the user clicks on one of those ads, the advertiser is charged a fee, hence the term “pay-per-click”. Pay Per Click ads services can also be done on social media platforms, advertising networks, and other websites. The goal of PPC advertising is to drive traffic to a website, increase brand visibility, and ultimately generate leads or sales. PPC services are just like a switch, you can turn it on and off any time you find suitable. It is the quickest method of gaining leads and sales and you can pause it or turn it off once your purpose is fulfilled. This marketing technique can be used on social media platforms such as Instagram, Facebook, LinkedIn, and others. These paid marketing services fit best for a large variety of businesses, small and big. How do PPC Services Help Businesses Grow? Lead Generation PPC advertising services are an effective way to generate leads for businesses. By including a call-to-action (CTA) in their ads, businesses can encourage potential customers to take specific action, such as filling out a form or signing up for a newsletter. These inquiries that ask for additional information from the site users (such as talk to our experts, sign up, learn more, add to cart, and so on) allow conversion and result in sales growth. This enables businesses to capture valuable information about their target audience and build a database of leads that can be used for future marketing efforts. The PPC campaign management services with the right targeting of your audience and engaging content can make your business profitable. Affordable PPC Services One of the key benefits of PPC advertising services is that it is budget-friendly. Advertisers only pay when someone clicks on their ad. This means that you are not paying for impressions or views that do not result in clicks. It implies that businesses can control their advertising costs and allocate their budget more effectively. PPC services also allow businesses to set a maximum bid for their ads, which means they can avoid overspending and stay within their budget. You also have the option to pause or stop your advertising campaigns at any time, which can help you avoid wasting money on unsuccessful campaigns. Boosts Website Traffic Paid marketing services enable businesses to target potential customers based on specific keywords and demographic criteria. This means that businesses can reach the right people at the right time, which can significantly increase the chances of converting visitors into customers. PPC ads are also highly customizable, allowing businesses to create ads that appeal to their target audience and reflect their unique brand identity. Visibility of a Business PPC advertising services can appear at the top of the search engine results pages, above the organic search results. This can greatly enhance visibility, as users are more likely to notice and click on ads that appear at the top of the page. Additionally, Ad extensions can help enhance the visibility of your PPC ads by providing additional information, such as phone numbers, addresses, and reviews, directly within the ad. This can help your ads stand out from competitors and provide more information to users, which can increase the chances of a click. Consistent and Immediate Results The best part about PPC services is that it gives you results as soon as the ads go live. Unlike the organic traffic, these paid marketing services can help generate revenue quickly. You can launch your campaign or PPC ad on any search engine, once it’s done, you will witness the immediate appearance of search results and attract more clicks and conversions. In the End PPC can be highly beneficial for small businesses, but it is not just an easy task. It has the potential to be both incredibly valuable and incredibly draining. Before deciding whether to use it for your brand or product, consider your marketing budget, available time, and who will manage it. If you do decide to pursue it, make sure to prioritize your website and budget over signing up for Google AdWords. While PPC is a crucial element of successful marketing campaigns, it requires ongoing monitoring and adjustments. If you’re willing to stay up-to-date and make necessary changes, it can be an effective strategy for your brand. For the longest time, Google Search has dominated the internet with no significant competition. However, last year, it faced its first potential rival, ChatGPT, the innovative chatbot from OpenAI that aims to be the next big game-changer in the technology industry. With its accurate answers to user inquiries, OpenAI’s chatbot quickly gained over a million users within a week of its release, causing alarm for tech giant Google despite ChatGPT still having much room for growth. In response, Google, with its business intelligence services, introduced its own AI chatbot, Google Bard, in 2023. What is BARD? BARD is a business analytics tool that uses ML and AI algorithms to help businesses make data-driven decisions. The tool can analyze large amounts of data in real time, providing businesses with valuable insights into their operations, customer behavior, and market trends. BARD can help businesses identify areas for improvement and make more informed decisions, leading to increased efficiency and growth. One of the key benefits of BARD is its ability to automate data analysis tasks, enabling the resources for other tasks and business intelligence services. The tool can also be integrated into existing systems and workflows, making it easy to use and accessible to businesses of all sizes. BARD provides real-time analytics, allowing businesses to respond quickly to changes in the market and take advantage of new opportunities. What is ChatGPT? ChatGPT, or Generative Pre-trained Transformer, is an AI language model that can respond to human queries in a conversational manner. This technology has a wide range of applications, including customer service, content creation, and language translation. With ChatGPT, businesses can provide 24/7 support to their customers, respond to inquiries quickly, and handle a large volume of requests efficiently. ChatGPT can be integrated into a variety of platforms, including websites, mobile apps, and messaging platforms, making it an ideal tool for businesses of all sizes. By automating these tasks, companies can save time and resources, giving them space to focus on more important tasks, such as developing new products and services. Alongside that, the chatbot can provide real-time feedback and insights into customer behavior, which can be used to improve the customer experience and increase sales. How BRAD Can Help Your Business Grow? Enhanced Customer Engagement Google BARD provides businesses with the tools to engage with their customers more effectively. With its integrated chatbots, businesses can answer customer questions quickly and efficiently, helping to build customer trust and satisfaction. Reach the Masses Google BARD helps businesses increase their reach by providing a platform for businesses to connect with customers and potential customers. With Google BARD, businesses can reach new customers through search engines, social media, and other online channels. This increased reach can help businesses to reach new customers and generate more sales. Excellent Marketing Techniques BARD provides businesses with a platform to enhance their marketing efforts and reach a wider audience. With its advanced analytics tools, businesses can track and analyze their marketing campaigns and make data-driven decisions to improve their results. How ChatGPT Can Help Your Business Grow? Automating Daily Tasks One of the key benefits of using Google ChatGPT for businesses is its ability to automate routine tasks. ChatGPT can be programmed to handle customer service inquiries, allowing employees to focus on more strategic business intelligence services. This can lead to increased efficiency and excellent customer satisfaction, as queries are addressed promptly. Valuable Insights In addition to automating routine tasks, Google ChatGPT can also provide businesses with valuable insights and recommendations. Its advanced natural language processing capabilities allow it to analyze large amounts of data, providing insights into trends and patterns that can help businesses make better decisions. Whether you’re looking to optimize your sales strategy or improve your marketing efforts, ChatGPT can help. In the End ChatGPT and BARD are two AI technologies that have the potential to greatly benefit businesses. By automating repetitive tasks and providing valuable insights, these tools can help companies streamline their operations and make the right decisions. Whether you’re a small startup or a large corporation, these tools can help you automate tasks and gain a competitive edge. With the ability to handle a large amount of data and provide 24/7 support, ChatGPT and BARD can help businesses improve their bottom line and grow their operations with business processing outsourcing solutions. The internet is a cornerstone of business growth, no matter the size of the enterprise. This is why Search Engine Optimization (SEO) has become so important. For anyone managing a business’s online presence, SEO is likely a familiar term—and for a good reason. As the world continues to embrace digital technologies, having a strong online presence isn’t just a bonus—it’s essential for success. SEO plays a key role in digital marketing by helping your business appear at the top of search results, making it easier for potential customers to find you. But what exactly is SEO, and why is it so vital for your business? Let’s break it down. What is SEO? SEO stands for “Search Engine Optimization.” It refers to the practice of optimizing a website to improve its visibility and ranking in search engine results pages (SERPs) for specific keywords and phrases. The goal of professional SEO services is to increase organic traffic to a website from search engines such as Google, Bing, or Yahoo. The ultimate goal is to rank higher in search engine results pages, which can result in more clicks, more traffic, and ultimately, more revenue for the website owner. There are local SEO services companies that provide SEO consulting services to help you rank your website higher. What Do Businesses Need Professional SEO Services? Improve User Experience Professional SEO services are not just about improving your website’s ranking on SERPs. It is also about improving the user experience (UX) of your website. A website that is easy to navigate, loads quickly, and has relevant content is more likely to engage visitors and increase conversions. SEO helps businesses create a user-friendly website that’s optimized for both users and search engines. By optimizing your website for search engines, you can improve its overall usability and make it easier for users to navigate and find the information they need. Brand Awareness SEO can also help build brand awareness by increasing your online visibility. When your website appears at the top of search engine results pages, people are more likely to recognize and remember your brand. This increased awareness can lead to more brand recognition and ultimately more customers. High Website Traffic Website traffic is extremely crucial, especially for e-commerce businesses and online pages. By optimizing your website and content for search engines, you can improve your ranking on search engine results, attract more traffic to your site and ultimately increase the number of potential customers. SEO helps businesses achieve this by optimizing their website content to improve their search engine ranking. Therefore, e-commerce SEO services and website SEO services are provided to help business rank at the top. Target Market The main purpose of SEO services is to target your audience. SEO allows you to target specific audiences by optimizing your content and website for relevant keywords. By targeting the right keywords, you can attract more qualified leads to your site and ultimately convert them into customers. Once you have captivated your target audience, the chances of conversion increase twofold. Conversion Rate Conversion is the trickiest but integral part of SEO services because conversions get customers and customers get revenue. Best SEO services can also help increase your conversion rate by improving the quality and relevance of your website and content. By providing users with the information they need, you can build trust and credibility, making them more likely to convert into customers. Competitive Edge A significant investment in professional SEO services often leads to a better ranking on search engine results, which in turn can increase market share. It is important to note that over 90% of traffic goes to results displayed on the first page of a Google search, making it essential for your business to be present on that page, especially if your competitors are there too. You can begin by identifying your competitors, evaluating their strengths and weaknesses, and managing your online reputation. Moreover, ensure that your website loads quickly and is mobile-friendly, focus on creating high-quality content, and prioritize providing an exceptional user experience. Helps Local Searches Local SEO services are essential for businesses that rely on local customers. Optimizing your website for local search helps you appear in the top results when people search for businesses in your area. This is particularly important for businesses that have a physical location and want to attract the traffic of customers who can physically visit their outlets. Wider Reach With the increasing number of mobile users and voice searches, SEO has become more important than ever. By optimizing your website for mobile and voice search, you can expand your reach and attract new customers who are looking for products and services like yours. Cost-Friendly Compared to other forms of online marketing, SEO is cost-effective. Although it requires an investment of time and resources, the long-term benefits of SEO outweigh the costs. SEO generates organic traffic, which means that you don’t have to pay for each click or impression. Quantifiable Results With the help of SEO services, it is possible to monitor changes in search result rankings, conversions, website traffic, and more. There are tools such as Google Analytics that offer a vast variety of information, which can be analyzed at a highly detailed level. For instance, it is feasible to view the entire purchasing process of each individual website user, such as the specific pages they viewed, the keywords they used to search, and whether they successfully performed certain actions. Such knowledge can be used to fine-tune and enhance one’s SEO tactics. In the End The use of SEO is one of the integral components of digital marketing strategy, which offers significant advantages to websites, such as long-term, exponential growth, and the opportunity to establish credibility and trust with their target audience. By investing in SEO consulting services from the SEO services company, businesses can benefit from these advantages. In recent years, we have seen the mobile app industry grow exponentially. With cut-throat competition in the market, every startup has to introduce unique ideas for mobile app development to stand out in 2023. Whether it is iOS app development or an Android app, this business is growing big and is able to play a vital role in delivering the requirements to its target audience. As technology continues to evolve, mobile apps have become an indispensable part of everyday life. From shopping to socializing, mobile apps have made our lives easier, more convenient, and more connected. As an entrepreneur, creating a mobile app is an excellent way to start or expand your business. So, if you are an entrepreneur who is looking for the best money-making ideas to develop an android app or iOS app in 2023, you are on the right page. 10 Profitable Mobile App Ideas in 2023 1. Virtual Interior Design App A virtual interior design app can help homeowners visualize their living spaces before they make any changes. The app would use augmented reality technology to create a 3D model of the room and allow users to add and remove furniture, decor, and color schemes. This would give homeowners the ability to see what their space would look like before making any costly mistakes. 2. Online Therapy App Mental health is a major concern for many people, and therapy is becoming more and more popular as a way to cope with the stresses of modern life. An online therapy app would allow users to connect with licensed therapists from the comfort of their own homes. This would eliminate the need for in-person appointments, making therapy more accessible to those who might not have the time or resources to travel to a therapist’s office. Moreover, this app allows entrepreneurs to contribute to the betterment of humanity. This app can cover both iPhone app development as well and android. 3. Fuel Delivery App As society rapidly evolves, there is a growing desire for convenient on-demand services. This has led to many startups and established businesses seeking to connect goods and services with consumers at their doorstep. One popular concept in this space is an app that offers on-demand fuel delivery. By using an on-demand fuel delivery app, individuals can have their vehicles refueled anywhere without having to physically visit a gas station. To use this service, customers only need to schedule a delivery and a fuel delivery specialist will come to their preferred location to fill up their vehicle. This type of on-demand app idea is gaining traction in various regions of the world and is expected to continue to grow in popularity in the coming years. 4. E-Learning App The Covid-19 pandemic has cemented the importance of e-learning apps in modern education, making them an essential tool for both teachers and students. Consequently, educational apps are currently playing a significant role in the lives of both students and teachers. Therefore, if you are an entrepreneur planning to launch an educational app in 2023, now would be an opportune time since these apps are currently in high demand. 5. Language Learning App As the world becomes more connected, learning a new language has become an essential skill. A language learning app could provide language lessons, practice exercises, and conversational practice with native speakers. This app development idea can work wonders especially for people moving to a different country to study or work. 6. Personal Finance App Managing personal finances can be challenging, and a personal finance app could help users track their expenses, create a budget, and monitor their investments. The app could also provide personalized advice on financial planning and investment strategies. The help can work great for people who wish to save but cannot manage their finances properly to do so. The entrepreneur can develop an android app from this idea as well as iOS. 7. Scheduling App Efficiently managing employee workflow is a top priority for businesses, and digital tools can simplify manual tasks and optimize resource allocation, ultimately saving time and money. Scheduling apps are an example of such digital solutions, as they facilitate automatic task assignment and productivity tracking, enhance interdepartmental collaboration, and improve overall key performance indicators. Moreover, scheduling apps eliminate the need for excessive email correspondence, making appointment scheduling more streamlined. These apps also benefit sales processes by enabling prospects to schedule meetings at their convenience. 8. Virtual Styling App A virtual styling app that allows users to upload photos of themselves and receive personalized fashion advice from professional stylists would be a valuable tool for people looking to update their wardrobes. The app could offer features such as virtual try-on tools, personalized style recommendations, and a marketplace for purchasing recommended clothing items. 9. Personalized Fitness App A personalized fitness app that provides customized workout plans, nutrition advice, and progress tracking would be a valuable tool for people looking to get in shape. The app could offer features such as personalized workouts based on user fitness level, meal planning tools, and progress tracking features to help users achieve their fitness goals. 10. Cooking App Idea With physical cookbooks being outdated and smartphones allowing easy access to learning, creating an app that teaches new recipes has great potential. While there are already numerous cooking apps available, there is still an opportunity to introduce innovation and reinvent the user experience. This idea is especially relevant for those seeking to modernize the cooking industry. The app idea would provide access to thousands of recipes, allow users to rate and review recipes, and offer step-by-step instructions to guide users through the cooking process. The Bottom Line Mobile apps are an essential part of modern-day business. They help entrepreneurs streamline their operations, reach their target audience, and stay competitive in the market. As we head into 2023, mobile apps are becoming more important than ever before, with more people using smartphones than ever before. These are just a few ideas to get started with, and there are many other opportunities for mobile app entrepreneurs to explore. The key to any app development is to identify a problem or need that users have and create an app that provides a valuable solution. To stay competitive and responsive to changing market demands, startups need a strong and dependable IT infrastructure that can scale as they grow. However, building and maintaining this infrastructure can be a real challenge, especially when resources and expertise are limited. That’s where outsourcing DevOps as a service comes in. It offers a practical solution by providing startups with the necessary tools and expertise to manage their IT infrastructure without the heavy burden of building it in-house. So, here we will discuss what DevOps as a service is and how startups can outsource DevOps as a service. What is DevOps as a Service? DevOps as a Service (DaaS) is a model of software development that combines the practices of software development (Dev) and information technology operations (Ops) to create a continuous delivery pipeline for software products. It is a cloud-based service that enables organizations to outsource their DevOps activities to a third-party provider, allowing them to focus on core business activities. DevOps as a Service can help organizations to accelerate their software development processes, reduce costs, and improve the quality of their products by leveraging the expertise and experience of the service provider. It can also provide scalability, flexibility, and agility in software development, allowing organizations to respond quickly to market demands and changing customer needs. Why Should Startups Outsource DevOps as a Service? Expertise and Experience Outsourcing DevOps as a service allows startups to access a team of experienced and skilled professionals. These experts have a deep understanding of the latest technologies and best practices in the industry. They can help startups develop and implement effective DevOps strategies that meet their unique needs and goals. This level of expertise can be hard to come by for startups that lack the resources to attract and retain such talent. Core Competencies Outsourcing DevOps as a service allows startups to focus on their core competencies. By leaving the IT infrastructure to the experts, startups can concentrate on developing their products and services and expanding their customer base. This means that they can achieve their business goals faster and more efficiently. Reduced Cost One of the main advantages of outsourcing DevOps as a service is cost savings. Startups can avoid the high costs associated with building and maintaining their IT infrastructure. By outsourcing, they can access the latest technologies and tools without incurring any capital expenditures. This means that startups can focus their resources on their core business activities, such as product development and marketing while leaving the IT infrastructure to the experts. QA and Security Enhancing quality assurance and security measures can be achieved by carrying out regular testing and monitoring activities, as well as automating certain processes. A competent DevOps team can greatly contribute to improving the quality of code released into the production environment. Additionally, engaging outsourced DevOps teams can offer several benefits such as prioritizing service quality and bringing in qualified engineers who stay up-to-date with the latest developments and possess relevant certifications in the areas of QA and security. DevSecOps & Cloud Security Security is a critical concern for startups as they need to protect their intellectual property, customer data, and other sensitive information. DaaS providers can help startups implement DevSecOps practices to ensure that security is integrated into every aspect of the software development life cycle. DaaS providers can also help startups implement cloud security best practices to protect their data and applications from security threats. DevOps Automation (CI/CD) Continuous integration and continuous delivery (CI/CD) are critical components of DevOps. DaaS providers can help startups automate their DevOps processes to reduce the time and effort required for software releases. By automating the build, test, and deployment processes, startups can deliver software faster and with higher quality. Scalability and Flexibility Startups need to be agile and responsive to changing market demands. Outsourcing DevOps as a service offers the flexibility and scalability, they need to achieve this. With DaaS, startups can quickly scale up or down their IT infrastructure to meet their changing business needs. This means that they can respond to market changes quickly and efficiently without having to invest in new infrastructure or hire additional staff. Enhanced Time-to-Market Startups must be able to bring their products to market quickly to stay ahead of the competition. Outsourcing DevOps as a service can help startups to improve their time-to-market by accelerating their software development cycles, improving their software quality, and increasing the efficiency of their software delivery processes. This can help startups to get their products to market more quickly, which can be critical in highly competitive industries. In conclusion Startups can benefit significantly from outsourcing DevOps as a service. By gaining access to expertise, flexibility, and cost savings, startups can accelerate their time-to-market and achieve their business goals. DaaS providers offer a range of services, including DevSecOps, cloud security, DevOps automation, and infrastructure as code, which can help startups optimize their DevOps processes and improve efficiency. With the help of a reliable DaaS provider, startups can benefit from the brilliant advantages and practices to make it more profitable. Google announced the much-awaited March 2023 core update on March 15, which came six months after the September Core Update. This core update, which lasted for 13 days and 7 hours, was highly anticipated due to the substantial changes that have impacted organic search in recent times. Some of these changes include the Helpful Content Update, several Product Reviews Updates, and most importantly, the growing popularity of generative AI tools. Google’s new Search Status Dashboard provides detailed information about the duration of the update. All brands, businesses, and organizations need to stay informed about Google algorithm updates since they can affect your website’s performance in search results. A core update, whether it leads to a positive or negative change in rankings, can have an impact on your organic traffic, conversions, and revenue. Being aware of the timing of these updates allows you to determine if any changes on your website are responsible for the shift in rankings, or if it was due to alterations in Google’s ranking algorithm. This is your moment to delve into your analytics and assess which changes you may need to enhance your pages and content. To jog your memory, the last major core update occurred in September 2022 and had a lesser impact than previous updates. However, the current update is more significant, so it’s important to anticipate potential changes in search rankings for expert SEO service providers. What is Google March 2023 Core Update? Google frequently updates its search algorithms, with updates occurring almost daily, as per Google’s statement. However, occasionally significant changes are made to the algorithms, which are referred to as “broad core updates.” The March 2023 broad core update from Google will prioritize pages that offer greater value compared to the current top-ranked pages. As a result, there could be a significant reorganization of search engine results. Google’s latest core update will aim to boost the rankings of high-quality or high-value web pages across all content types, regions, and languages. Google has clarified that this update is not designed to specifically target any particular pages or websites. Here is what we currently know about Google March 2023 Core Update: It was released on March 15th, It was completely rolled out on March 28th, The target of this core update is all types of content. Google March 2023 Core Update will impact all regions and sites across the globe. This update enforces no penalty, it only promotes or rewards good web pages. Google did not disclose the exact percentage of search queries affected by this update, but it appears to be a standard core update that has a broad reach and quickly impacts search results. The March 2023 Core Update will impact every feature of Google. In order to avoid the hit of this update, maybe SEO service providers need to examine their content and how they can make it better. What to Do About this Core Update? As an expert SEO service provider, one way to manage a core update is to stay informed about the changes and adjust your SEO strategy accordingly. Although there may be a lot of speculation and fluctuations in tracking tools, it’s important to avoid making hasty conclusions about the update. For lawyers and legal marketers, it’s especially important to monitor changes and adapt your SEO approach as necessary. It’s worth noting that Google typically asserts that core updates are designed to enhance their content evaluation system and that there isn’t much that can be done to directly influence rankings. How to Bounce Back from Google March 2023 Core Update? For a considerable period, Google has kept it unclear on how to bounce back from a comprehensive core algorithm update. They have suggested that it may not be worth attempting to recover, at least until the next update is implemented. Previously, their support documents regarding core updates directly mentioned that there was no need to fix anything if a page’s ranking dropped after an update. Here are a few steps which can help you recover from this update. 1. It’s Temporary Many of the initial changes in search engine rankings during a broad core update may not be permanent. If you’re fortunate, your website traffic may return to its previous level within a few weeks, or even improve. Therefore, it’s risky to make major alterations to your website during a broad core update as it could harm aspects of your content that Google deems favorable. It’s better to not be hasty and wait until you’re certain that the core update has finished and your website has been negatively impacted before making any changes. 2. Relevance of Pages Essentially, this explains why the content on the list of “problem pages” that you have created has been demoted to lower positions in search results: it is now considered less relevant and authoritative compared to your competitors’ content. You can check the relevance by keeping your page up to date and you are covering appropriate topics in detail. You can also create relevant new content. 3. Reevaluate your Technical SEO As an SEO service provider, to ensure successful recovery from any core update, it is advisable to tackle critical technical SEO problems that are having an adverse impact on the user experience. You can start with the basics such as improving page load time, navigation structure, internal and external links, headlines and meta descriptions, and Core Web Vitals scores. The Bottom Line Google’s March 2023 Core Update aims to improve how the search engine’s systems assess content overall, with a focus on promoting high-quality web pages. Although there is little information available on this update, it may cause some disruption to the expert SEO service providers. However, the full impact of the update is yet to be seen, and it may take some time for webmasters and marketers to understand how it affects their websites. As always, it is best to focus on creating high-quality content that provides value to users, rather than relying on shortcuts or manipulative tactics. The world of marketing has transformed dramatically in recent years, thanks to the rise of digital devices and social media. Traditional methods like radio ads, billboards, and print advertising are no longer the primary way to reach customers. Instead, businesses are using digital channels such as social media, email, and online content to connect with their audiences effectively. For many business owners, especially those unfamiliar with full-service digital marketing, navigating this shift can be overwhelming. Deciding which marketing channels best suit their products or services can be equally challenging. However, with the increasing number of customers shopping online, digital marketing has become an essential part of running a successful business. To help, here are eight types of digital marketing strategies that businesses can use to promote their offerings in today’s digital landscape. What is Digital Marketing? Digital marketing refers to the promotion of products, services, or brands through digital channels such as search engines, social media, email, mobile apps, and other online platforms. Digital marketing involves various techniques, such as search engine optimization (SEO), pay-per-click advertising (PPC), social media marketing, email marketing, content marketing, and mobile marketing. Digital marketing offers businesses of all sizes a cost-effective and measurable way to connect with their audience and track the success of their marketing campaigns. 8 Essential Digital Marketing Types Search Engine Optimization (SEO) SEO or Search Engine Optimization involves optimizing the content and structure of a website to enhance its visibility and ranking on search engines like Google, Bing, and Yahoo. The goal of SEO is to increase organic, or unpaid, traffic to a website by improving its relevance, authority, and trustworthiness for specific search terms or keywords. This type of digital marketing includes a variety of techniques, including optimizing website content, creating high-quality backlinks, improving website structure and navigation, using meta tags and descriptions, and utilizing social media and other online platforms to promote the website’s content. Effective SEO requires an understanding of how search engines work, as well as knowledge of the latest trends and best practices in the industry. Pay-Per-Click (PPC) Advertising PPC advertising is a type of digital marketing service that involves paying for ads that have to rank high on search engine pages. You pay each time someone clicks on your ad, which makes it a cost-effective way to drive traffic to your website. This type of digital marketing is particularly effective for businesses that want to promote specific products or services to a targeted audience. Social Media Marketing Social media marketing involves using social media platforms such as Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram to promote your brand, products, and services. By creating engaging content and building a following on these platforms, you can increase brand awareness and drive traffic to your website. This type of digital marketing is particularly effective for businesses that want to reach a younger demographic. Content Marketing Content marketing is a form of digital marketing service that focuses on producing and sharing relevant, valuable content in a consistent manner to attract and maintain a specific target audience. The primary goal of content marketing is to build brand awareness, establish thought leadership, generate leads, and ultimately drive profitable customer action. Content marketing involves creating various types of content, such as blog posts, videos, podcasts, social media posts, infographics, whitepapers, case studies, and e-books, among others. The content is designed to provide value to the audience by addressing their pain points, answering their questions, or providing them with entertainment. Email Marketing Email marketing refers to the practice of sending promotional emails to a group of subscribers who have voluntarily subscribed to receive them. By creating engaging and informative emails, you can keep your subscribers informed about new products, special offers, and industry news. This type of digital marketing is particularly effective for businesses that want to build long-term relationships with their customers. Mobile Marketing Mobile marketing refers to a set of strategies and techniques used to promote products or services through mobile devices such as smartphones, tablets, or other mobile devices. Mobile marketing includes a wide range of tactics such as mobile advertising, SMS and MMS marketing, mobile apps, mobile search, and location-based marketing. The goal of mobile marketing is to reach customers on the go and provide them with personalized, relevant, and timely messages that help drive engagement, sales, and brand awareness. Mobile marketing can be an effective way for businesses to connect with customers, especially as the use of mobile devices continues to grow. Influencer Marketing Influencer marketing entails collaborating with social media personalities who possess a substantial number of followers to endorse and advertise your products or services. By leveraging the trust and influence of these individuals, you can reach a wider audience and increase brand awareness. This type of digital marketing is particularly effective for businesses that want to reach a younger demographic and build a more engaged community. Affiliate Marketing Affiliate marketing requires collaborating with other companies or people to advertise your goods or services. You pay a commission for every sale that is made through their unique referral link. This type of digital marketing is particularly effective for businesses that want to expand their reach and increase sales. The Bottom Line Digital marketing services have become an indispensable part of modern-day marketing strategies. The rise of digital marketing has transformed the way businesses reach out to their target audience. Operating your business without a digital presence is comparable to attempting to drive a car without fuel. It’s impossible to start and impossible to achieve your desired destination. Small businesses have always faced challenges in reaching out to their customers cost-effectively and efficiently. With the increasing usage of smartphones, mobile apps have emerged as a powerful tool for businesses to connect with their customers. Many small business owners do not have a mobile application, which results in a gradual loss of revenue. As a small business owner, this means that you are directing your customers toward your competitors by not having mobile app development services for your business. It may seem intimidating, but it is a simple fact. Mobile applications are prevalent and present in almost every aspect of daily life, from setting an alarm in the morning to ordering food or taking a sick day. Therefore, small business owners must gain an edge by encouraging customers to spend more time on their devices. Our 10 Reasons You Need a Mobile App Still not convinced? Here's why small businesses need a small business mobile app and how mobile app development services can help them achieve their goals. Lucrative Sales Mobile apps can be a powerful tool for small businesses to increase their sales, how? Mobile apps can improve the customer experience by providing a more convenient and personalized shopping experience. With a mobile app, customers can easily browse products, make purchases, and track their orders on the go, which can lead to increased customer satisfaction and loyalty. Secondly, mobile apps can help businesses reach new customers through app store visibility and targeted marketing campaigns. By optimizing their app for search engines and using targeted advertising, businesses can attract new customers who may not have otherwise discovered their products or services. Brand Awareness Gone are the days when businesses used traditional methods like business cards, flyers, and banners to improve their brand image. In today’s technologically advanced world, having a strong online presence is crucial. Mobile apps that use push notifications can help businesses engage more effectively with customers and clients. By using these apps, small and medium-sized businesses (SMBs) can send notifications about new products and promotions to all users or specific groups, based on data like location and previous engagement history. By using small businesses’ mobile apps, companies can ensure that their brand remains at the forefront of customers’ minds with the right settings and configurations. A strong brand image can help businesses attract more digital traffic, outperform competitors, and increase sales. Customer Loyalty One of the primary reasons to consider creating your own mobile app is to build customer loyalty. Due to the overwhelming amount of advertising and marketing messages bombarding consumers, it’s easy to lose impact and connection with your customer base. By developing a mobile app, you can establish a genuine and meaningful relationship with your customers, which can foster their loyalty and devotion to your brand. While a mobile app may not be magical for your business, it can certainly help you maintain close proximity to your customers and be easily accessible to them whenever they need you. Competitive Advantage Having a mobile app can give your small business a significant competitive advantage. While many small businesses are still relying on traditional websites and social media, having a mobile app can set your business apart from the competition. Moreover, a mobile app can help you attract new customers who are looking for a more convenient way to engage with businesses. Cost-Effective Marketing Mobile apps can be a cost-effective way to market products or services. Notification alerts can be used to inform customers of new products, discounts, or promotions, without the need for expensive advertising campaigns. To take advantage of the benefits of a mobile app, small businesses should consider hiring a mobile app development company. These companies offer mobile app development services, including Android app development and iOS development services. Social Media Exposure If you plan and implement the right approach, your mobile application can serve as a means to connect with your social media platforms. By establishing links between your application and social media pages, there is a high possibility that users will be directed toward those pages and potentially interact with your social media content. You can also promote social media engagement by encouraging users to share reviews or links to your website on their own social media pages. Therefore, having a mobile app for your business can generate additional exposure for your brand, making it an essential tool for your marketing strategy. Better Customer Insights Mobile app development services can provide valuable insights into customer behavior and preferences. With the help of analytics tools, you can track how customers interact with your app, what products or services they are interested in, and what features they use the most. This information can help you to make data-driven decisions and improve your app and business. Customer Support Mobile apps can provide businesses with a more efficient way to provide customer support. With features like in-app chat and support tickets, businesses can quickly and easily respond to customer inquiries and issues. This can help improve customer satisfaction and retention for your business. Fewer Expenses Reduced expenses can be achieved by using mobile apps to promote your brand. This would eliminate the need to allocate funds for producing and distributing physical promotional materials like billboards, posters, brochures, flyers, and newsletters to potential customers. As a result, your business can avoid additional expenses associated with hiring agencies to effectively distribute these materials. Reach a Wider Audience Mobile apps can reach a wider audience as they can be downloaded and used by anyone with a smartphone or tablet. This allows small businesses to expand their customer base beyond their physical location. In the End Having a mobile app can provide small businesses with a significant competitive advantage. With increased visibility, improved customer engagement, better customer experience, and increased sales, mobile apps can help small businesses grow and succeed. If you’re a small business looking for mobile app development services, it’s essential to partner with a reputable mobile app development company that can help you create a high-quality mobile app for your business. It is true that content is king! From attracting site visitors to converting customers, content does it all and it is one of the strongest tools of digital marketing strategy. It is not the format that captivates the audience but an effective content marketing approach that works. Content marketing services are an effective way to engage with your target audience, build trust and credibility, and drive conversions. As we have entered 2023, there are some content marketing strategies that are set to become even more important for businesses seeking to stay ahead of the game. With evolving trends in 2023, there are many new and exciting content marketing strategies that can completely take your business one step ahead. What Is Content Marketing? Content marketing refers to a marketing approach that focuses on developing and sharing informative, useful, and coherent content in order to draw in and retain a specific target audience. The ultimate goal of content marketing is to drive profitable customer action by building trust and credibility with your audience. Content marketing examples can be seen in many forms such as blog posts, social media updates, videos, podcasts, whitepapers, e-books, infographics, and more. The content can be educational, informative, entertaining, or a combination of all three. The key to successful content marketing is to create content that resonates with your target audience and provides them with value. By doing so, you can establish yourself or your brand as a leading name in your industry, build trust with your audience, and ultimately drive more leads and sales. Content Marketing Strategies 1. Interactive Content Interactive content is a trend that’s set to continue in 2023. Interactive content includes social media quizzes, polls, calculators, and other types of content that encourage the user to engage with the content in a more active way. Interactive content is highly engaging, as it allows the user to participate in the content rather than simply consume it. To succeed with interactive content in 2023, it’s important to focus on creating content that’s both fun and informative. Interactive content should be designed to help the user learn something new, while also providing a fun and interesting experience. It’s also important to promote your interactive content on social media, as this can help to drive engagement and shares. 2. Influencer Marketing Influencer marketing is the best content marketing strategy these days. It is a powerful way to reach new audiences and build confidence with your target audience. In 2023, influencer marketing is set to become even more important, as consumers increasingly look to influencers for recommendations and advice. To succeed with influencer marketing in 2023, it’s important to choose influencers who align with your brand values and target audience. You should also focus on building long-term relationships with your influencers, rather than just working with them on a one-off basis. This can help to develop trust and credibility with your audience, as they’ll see that your brand is aligned with an influencer they trust and admire. 3. Podcasts Podcasts have become an increasingly popular form of content in recent years. In 2023, businesses must continue to leverage podcasts to engage with their target audience. Podcasts can take many forms, from interviews to educational content. Podcasts are effective because they allow businesses to provide in-depth content that resonates with their audience. They also provide a platform for thought leadership and can help establish the brand as an authority in the industry. 4. Chatbots and AI Chatbots and AI are becoming increasingly popular in customer service, and in 2023, they will also play a significant role in content marketing. Chatbots can help deliver personalized content, answer common questions, and provide a seamless customer experience. Moreover, AI can be used to analyze data and provide insights into how your audience is interacting with your content. 5. User-Generated Content User-generated content (UGC) is a cost-effective way to create authentic and engaging content for your brand. UGC includes content created by your customers, such as reviews, photos, and videos. UGC is an effective content marketing plan and an excellent way to showcase your brand’s personality and create a sense of community around your products or services. Businesses can leverage UGC by encouraging customers to share their experiences on social media, creating branded hashtags, and running UGC contests. By incorporating UGC into your content marketing strategy, you can increase engagement, build a strong relationship with your audience, and improve your brand’s reputation. 6. Storytelling Storytelling has been a core part of a content marketing plan for a long time, but it is still one of the most effective ways to connect with your audience. Storytelling allows you to create an emotional connection with your audience by using narratives, characters, and themes that resonate with their experiences and aspirations. It is a great way to convey your brand values and create a memorable experience that sticks with your audience. 7. Micro-Moments Micro-moments are the small moments throughout the day when consumers turn to their devices to solve a problem, answer a question, or make a decision. These moments are an opportunity for brands to provide relevant and useful information that helps consumers move forward in their journey. To make the most of micro-moments, you need to understand your audience’s needs and behaviors and create content that meets those needs in a timely and relevant manner. Micro-moments can happen at any time and on any device, so it’s important to have a mobile-friendly website and a strong presence on social media platforms. Brands should also focus on creating content that’s easy to consume, shareable, and optimized for search engines. By providing valuable information that’s easily accessible during these micro-moments, brands can establish themselves as trusted sources and create long-term relationships with their audience. The Bottom Line Content marketing services have become an essential component of any marketing strategy for businesses of all sizes. It allows companies to create valuable, relevant, and consistent content that attracts and retains a clearly defined audience, ultimately driving profitable customer action. With the constant evolution of technology, consumer behavior, and the marketing landscape, it’s important for businesses to stay up-to-date with the latest content marketing strategies. We have come a long way since we first learned about the benefits of moving to the cloud and how it can modernize your business's infrastructure, improve efficiency, and optimize costs. Cloud migration services enable you to stay ahead of the competition and streamline your business simultaneously. Some people believe that their outdated legacy systems are satisfactory and they shouldn’t spend such considerable amounts on cloud migration. But when you're doing this, you're stopping your business from modernizing and adapting to the evolving technologies. If you're still unsure, let us convince you with ten alluring reasons for your business that will definitely persuade you to migrate to the cloud in 2025. Why Should You Move to the Cloud This Year? 1. Cost Efficiency First of all, migrating to the cloud can save you plenty of money on maintenance, hardware, and upgrades. Not only are you able to scale your operations, but with a cloud infrastructure you only pay for what you utilize, reducing a lot of IT expenses. Additionally, cloud providers offer pricing options that fit your business needs, from pay-as-you-go to long-term commitments. IT executives have the convenience of optimizing computing resources based on specific business needs and reducing unnecessary expenses in the cloud. Instead of estimating capacity needs beforehand, companies can make changes as required and get rid of extra hardware or inflexible on-site assets. 2. Improved Accessibility Today, remote work has become the norm, so having accessibility is paramount. The cloud infrastructure enables employees to have remote access to all applications and data, no matter where they want to work from. Therefore, you can use cloud migration services to migrate your applications and data to the cloud, making them accessible from anywhere with an internet connection. 3. DevSecOps & Cloud Security The focus on cybersecurity will persist so, the companies must update their IT infrastructure to follow industry standards and shield their software from harmful cyberattacks by transferring them to the cloud. Cloud providers such as AWS, Azure, and Google Cloud have top-notch security measures in place to protect your data. They have dedicated teams of experts who focus solely on DevSecOps & Cloud security, making it more secure than traditional on-premises solutions. With the rise of DevSecOps, security is now built into the development process, making it easier to identify and resolve any security concerns in real-time. It is important to note that some IT experts wrongly assume that the cloud is the only reason for organizational security. In fact, the cloud enables organizations to utilize necessary security measures such as policies, governance, and compliance guardrails for their operations. Disaster Recovery Cloud providers offer disaster recovery solutions that ensure business continuity in the event of a disaster or outage. With cloud-based backup and recovery solutions, you can quickly recover your data and applications, minimizing downtime and data loss. DevOps Automation Cloud service providers offer various DevOps automation tools that streamline development and deployment processes, including continuous integration, delivery, and deployment. These tools reduce manual work, making it faster and more efficient to develop and deploy applications. Moreover, they enhance collaboration between teams, improving agility, and productivity. Competitive Advantage Today, markets are becoming more competitive, interest rates are rising, and economic conditions are changing, which is why companies also face intense pressure to move quickly to gain an edge over their rivals. This pressure has been intensified by the use of advanced technologies, which have increased the need for businesses to outpace their competitors. Cloud migration services have the potential to provide a significant advantage in the face of increasingly intense competition by allowing for the rapid deployment of new products and applications within a matter of weeks instead of months. Moreover, the flexible nature of the cloud environment can prove particularly beneficial for insurance companies, enabling them to scale their IT services to support critical business functions. Collaborative Environment Effective collaboration is greatly enhanced when teams have the ability to conveniently access, modify, and exchange documents in real-time. The cloud is helpful in enabling this form of teamwork as it allows documents to be accessed from any location, at any time, and offers complete transparency throughout the collaborative process. Cloud infrastructure offers collaboration tools that make it easier for teams to work together on projects. These tools enable real-time collaboration, allowing team members to work together on the same documents simultaneously. Moreover, cloud-based collaboration tools enhance communication and collaboration between teams, improving productivity and reducing time to market. Reduction of Carbon Footprint Migrating to the cloud can reduce your carbon footprint by reducing the amount of energy required to power and cool your servers. Cloud migration service providers use energy-efficient infrastructure that reduces energy consumption, making it an eco-friendly solution. Additionally, cloud providers use renewable energy sources such as wind and solar power, further reducing their carbon footprint. Easily Accessible Cloud infrastructure enables remote access to data and applications, making it easier for employees to work from anywhere, anytime. This feature is particularly beneficial in today’s business, where remote work has become the norm. Cloud migration services can help you migrate your applications and data to the cloud, making them accessible from anywhere with an internet connection. DevOps Services Accessibility Cloud providers also offer a range of advanced DevOps services, such as automated testing and deployment, continuous integration and delivery, and more. By migrating to the cloud, businesses can benefit from these advanced services, which can improve their software development processes and reduce development cycles. The Bottom Line Cloud computing offers businesses many benefits, including cost savings, scalability, improved collaboration, advanced security features, disaster recovery, DevOps automation, and cloud migration services. As more and more businesses realize these benefits, the trend of cloud migration services is expected to continue in 2023 and beyond. If you’re considering migrating to the cloud, it’s important to work with a reputable cloud service provider that offers the services and support you need to ensure a successful migration. We use the name digital marketing as a broad and general term. However, digital marketing has various types, and the features and channels of each type are constantly evolving. One digital marketing strategy that is often ignored is performance marketing. This marketing strategy involves advertisers paying only when specific actions are taken, such as a user clicking through to their website or making a purchase. Here, we will tell you about performance marketing definition and the best practices for performance marketers. What is Performance Marketing? Digital performance marketing is a form of online advertising where advertisers pay only when a specific action is completed, such as a sale, lead, or click. Unlike traditional advertising models, which rely on impressions or views, performance marketing is focused on measurable results. In performance marketing, advertisers typically work with publishers or affiliates who promote their products or services to their own audience through various marketing channels such as email marketing, search engine marketing, display advertising, social media marketing, or influencer marketing. These publishers are paid based on the specific results they generate for the advertiser, such as a percentage of the sale or a fee per lead or click. Performance marketing allows advertisers to have more control over their ad spend and measure the effectiveness of their campaigns in real-time. It is a popular model for e-commerce businesses and companies with direct-response marketing objectives, as it can help them drive more targeted traffic, increase conversions, and maximize their return on investment (ROI). 10 Best Practices for Performance Marketers Define Your Goals The first step in any successful performance marketing campaign is to define your goals. What do you want to achieve with your campaign? Is it to generate more leads, increase sales, or improve customer retention? Once you’ve identified your goals, you can develop a strategy to achieve them. Identify Your Right Audience One of the key elements of successful performance marketing is identifying and targeting the right audience. Marketers must conduct thorough research to understand their customers’ preferences, demographics, interests, and behaviors. This information can help marketers create more personalized and targeted campaigns that can lead to higher conversion rates. Landing Page Optimization You must to keep in mind that conversion rate optimization is an ongoing process, and adjustments may need to be made as you go along. However, even the most effective ad targeting strategy won’t lead to increased sales if your landing pages aren’t optimized for conversions. Testing different variations of your landing pages will also be necessary, but these are the fundamentals for achieving a successful launch. Data-Driven Insights Data is the foundation of performance marketing. Marketers should use data-driven insights to optimize their campaigns, measure results, and identify areas for improvement. With the help of data analytics tools, performance marketers can track customer behavior, monitor campaign performance, and make data-driven decisions. Use AI Technology As a performance marketer, you can utilize artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning to divide your target audiences into segments, enhance campaigns, and enhance return on investment (ROI) from advertisements. OTT and CTV Platforms for Retargeting Connected TV (CTV) and over-the-top (OTT) platforms deviate significantly from the conventional TV model. Rather than a broad approach, these platforms offer targeted advertising that tailors to users’ interests and actions. Such targeted advertising is remarkably potent and efficient for performance marketing. By using CTV or OTT advertising, marketers can deliver their message to the most appropriate audience at the optimal time, making it a valuable tool for any performance marketer. Monitor And Adjust Digital performance marketing campaigns require constant monitoring and adjustment. You should regularly review campaign performance, identify areas for improvement, and make necessary changes. This can include adjusting bid strategies, targeting parameters, and ad copy to optimize performance. You may also take a trusted performance marketing agency on board to assist you with all the marketing tactics. A/B Testing A/B testing, also called split testing, is a necessary resource in the toolkit of any performance marketer. As we know that optimization is a gradual process and A/B testing enables you to implement minor modifications to your landing pages and ad campaigns to discover which are the most impactful. By using A/B testing, you can gauge the efficacy of various components, including ad text, positioning, visuals, and so on; hence, enabling you to constantly enhance your campaigns and optimize your return on investment. Focus on Conversions The ultimate goal of performance marketing is to drive conversions. Every element of your campaign should be optimized to maximize conversions, from the messaging to the landing pages. Use clear calls-to-action (CTAs) and make it easy for users to convert. Continuously monitor and optimize your campaigns to improve conversion rates. Mobile Advertisement With mobile devices making up almost 70% of digital media consumption, businesses are focusing their efforts on mobile advertising to increase their outreach and return on investment. Though it can be challenging to navigate, mobile is a potent platform. To ensure the effectiveness of your mobile campaigns, it is crucial to customize them for the specific device being used and consider the user’s context when designing ads. Generally, ads must appear natural and organic, as if they are a natural part of the viewer’s social media feed and can be clicked on. The Bottom Line Performance marketing is an effective way for businesses to increase conversions, generate revenue, and achieve measurable results. By following these ten best practices, performance marketers can optimize their campaigns, reach the right audience, and achieve success in the competitive online marketplace. Graphic design service is an essential aspect of modern business, and it’s important to have the right tools at your disposal to create visually appealing designs that will stand out in a crowded marketplace. There are many different graphic design apps available, each with its own set of strengths and weaknesses. Here, we will take a closer look at some of the best graphic design apps for designers, whether you’re looking for a top app design service, branding, graphic design services, custom graphic design services, or affordable graphic design services. So, we will take a look at some of the best graphic design apps for designers. Adobe Photoshop Adobe Photoshop is a vital app for all graphic designers. It is a powerful image editing tool that allows designers to create and edit images, graphics, and artwork for branding and graphic design services. Photoshop has a vast range of tools and features that can be used to enhance the design’s look and feel. It is a versatile tool that can be used for various purposes such as web design, print design, and digital art. Photoshop is available for both Mac and Windows and offers a 7-day free trial. Adobe Illustrator Adobe Illustrator is another essential tool for graphic designers. It is a vector-based software that allows designers to create illustrations, logos, typography, and other graphics. Illustrator has a variety of tools and features that make it an ideal choice for designing artwork. The software offers precision and accuracy in designing and allows designers to create high-quality graphics that can be used in print and digital media. Illustrator is also available for both Mac and Windows and offers a 7-day free trial. Canva Canva is a popular graphic design app that’s easy to use and has a wide range of features. It offers a variety of templates for various design projects, such as social media graphics, presentations, flyers, and more. Canva also has an extensive library of graphics, images, and fonts that you can use in your designs. The app’s drag-and-drop interface makes it easy to create professional-looking designs without any graphic design experience. Canva offers a free version as well as a paid version with additional features. The paid version includes access to more templates, graphics, and fonts, as well as the ability to create your own branding kit and upload your own fonts and images. Figma Figma is a web-based design tool that offers a range of features, including vector editing, collaboration tools, and the ability to create interactive prototypes. It is popular among designers who work remotely, as it allows for real-time collaboration and feedback. Figma offers a free version as well as a paid version with additional features, such as access to more design libraries and the ability to create and share design systems. Sketch Sketch is a popular graphic design app for Mac users, known for its vector editing capabilities. With Sketch, you can create vector graphics, logos, icons, and user interfaces for websites and apps. The app also includes collaboration features, making it easy to work with other designers and developers. One of the advantages of Sketch is its ease of use and intuitive interface, making it a popular choice among designers who prefer a simpler tool than Adobe Creative Cloud. Moreover, Sketch has a range of plugins that can help you streamline your workflow and enhance your designs. While Sketch is only available for Mac users, it is a powerful tool for designers looking for a vector-based graphic design app, providing the best mobile app design services. The Bottom Line As a designer, you know that having the right tools can make all the difference in creating visually stunning and impactful designs. With so many graphic design apps available, it can be overwhelming to choose the right one for your needs. The most suitable graphic design app for you will vary based on your specific needs. If you’re a professional looking to generate diverse visions for numerous clients, you may require comprehensive desktop software with advanced features such as Adobe Illustrator and Photoshop, which are considered industry-leading graphic design apps. On the other hand, if you’re working on personal projects, you may be able to manage with less advanced software or even utilize free graphic design programs. Have you ever experienced the struggle of handling multiple tasks simultaneously as a business owner or manager? It can feel like you’re managing ten tasks and trying to balance a few more. The workload can be overwhelming, and it may seem like there aren’t enough hours in the day. An essential factor in establishing a thriving business is developing a robust marketing strategy. Your choice of who will create your marketing plan can significantly impact your success. You can opt to collaborate with a digital agency or a freelance marketer. From social media management to search engine optimization (SEO), digital marketing encompasses a range of strategies and tactics aimed at reaching and engaging with your target audience. With so much competition online, it can be challenging for businesses to effectively navigate the world of digital marketing on their own. That’s where digital marketing agencies and freelancers come in. But who should you choose? Digital marketing firm or a freelancer? Here, we will give you the benefits of hiring a digital marketing agency over a freelancer and why it may be the best decision for your business. First let’s dive into the basics. What Does a Digital Marketing Agency Firm Do? Digital marketing agency for small businesses or large enterprises is responsible for helping businesses improve their online presence, attract more customers, and increase their revenue through various digital marketing strategies. These agencies specialize in developing and executing customized marketing plans that can include search engine optimization (SEO), pay-per-click (PPC) advertising, social media marketing, email marketing, content marketing, and other tactics. Partnering with a digital marketing firm can help businesses improve their brand awareness, generate more leads, and grow their revenue in the long term. What Does a Freelancer Do? A digital marketing freelancer is a self-employed professional who offers a range of b2b digital marketing services to clients on a project basis. They are the digital marketing specialists who typically work remotely and offer their services to businesses of various sizes, including startups, small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), and larger corporations. Their main goal is to help businesses reach their target audience through various digital marketing channels. Digital marketing freelancers are responsible for managing all aspects of a client’s digital marketing campaigns, from creating strategies and developing content to implementing and analyzing campaigns. They must be skilled in using digital marketing tools, have a good understanding of current trends and best practices in the industry, and be able to work independently while meeting tight deadlines. Overall, digital marketing freelancers play a crucial role in helping businesses succeed in the digital age by leveraging their expertise to drive traffic, leads, and sales online. Why is Digital Marketing Agency Better than a Freelancer? Skillset and Expertise By hiring a digital marketing specialist from an agency, you can avail the services of a team of skilled marketers who possess a diverse set of abilities. This saves you the hassle of reiterating your vision as they already have a shared understanding of the most effective strategies for your business. This means you have access to a comprehensive range of services and strategies that can be tailored to your specific needs. In contrast, a freelancer may have a more limited skillset and expertise. While they may be an expert in one or two areas, they may not have the experience or knowledge to execute a comprehensive digital marketing plan. Workload Management No matter how much you scale up your marketing efforts, you are confident that your B2B digital marketing firm can handle it thanks to the support of the entire team. The marketing for your business continues even in the event that a team member becomes sick or takes time off. On the contrary, if the freelancer you hire is handling multiple clients simultaneously, their workload may impact the standard of work they deliver to you. Furthermore, if the freelancer falls ill or is unable to work, your marketing efforts will be delayed. Long-Term Partnership Digital marketing agency for small businesses or large enterprise is more likely to view your project as a long-term partnership. They will work with you to understand your business goals and create a customized digital marketing strategy that meets your specific needs. This means that you can build a long-term relationship with the agency, which can lead to better results and greater ROI. You cannot expect a long-term partnership with a freelancer your partnership is just limited to a project which ends as the project finishes. Optimized Cost Outsourcing your marketing to an agency is a more cost-effective option compared to recruiting and managing an in-house marketing team. In contrast, although they may not be working for you on a full-time basis, it is not guaranteed that they are inexpensive. Skilled freelancers understand the value of their knowledge and experience, and they may consider their personal expenses when determining their rates. In the End While both digital marketing agencies and freelancers offer valuable services, partnering with a digital reputable marketing firm can help businesses improve their online presence, reach their target audience more effectively, generate more leads, and ultimately grow their revenue in the long term. Rather than engaging multiple freelance professionals for specific tasks, you can accomplish the work in a more efficient and affordable way and reduce the completion time by outsourcing your marketing to an agency. Today, organizations are facing mounting pressure to provide innovative, cutting-edge products and services despite having limited budgets. Hence, it is crucial to utilize resources efficiently and concentrate on the most significant tasks. Here, we are specifically emphasizing the employees, who are the most crucial asset. Regrettably, poor management of resources will inevitably result in unfavorable outcomes like reduced productivity, delays, inferior quality, higher expenses, missed prospects, and low team spirit. However, the question arises of how to enhance resource management as the teams are already operating at their full potential. What Is IT Resource Management? IT resource management is the process of managing and optimizing an organization’s technology resources to meet its business goals and objectives. This includes managing the use of hardware, software, networks, databases, and other IT resources to ensure they are utilized effectively and efficiently. IT support management services also involve monitoring and controlling the use of IT resources to ensure that they are being used in a way that supports the business goals. This may involve implementing policies and procedures to manage access to IT resources, monitoring usage patterns to identify areas where improvements can be made, and identifying potential security risks. What are the Best Practices of IT Resource Management? Implement Robust IT Security Measures IT security is a critical aspect of IT resource management solutions. It is important to implement robust security measures to protect the organization’s IT resources from cyber threats. This involves implementing firewalls, antivirus software, and other security measures to protect against malware, phishing attacks, and other security threats. Align IT Strategy with Business Goals The first and foremost best practice of IT support & management services is to align the organization’s IT strategy with its business goals. The IT strategy should be developed in such a way that it supports the organization’s overall strategy and objectives. This will help to ensure that the IT resources are utilized effectively and efficiently and that IT projects are aligned with the organization’s goals. Simplify Scheduling and Planning Resources To optimize resource planning and scheduling, it is essential to centralize and streamline the process. This involves consolidating all resource-related information in one shared repository to ensure consistency across the organization. By utilizing appropriate resource allocation tools, decision-making becomes more informed. Develop a Comprehensive IT Asset Inventory A comprehensive IT asset inventory is critical to effective IT resource management. It involves identifying all the IT assets, including hardware, software, and other resources, that the organization uses. This will help to ensure that the organization has a complete understanding of its IT resources, which can be used to optimize their usage. Implement IT Asset Management Software IT asset management software can help you manage your IT resources more effectively. The software can track the location, performance, and utilization of all IT assets, making it easier to identify areas that need improvement. It can also help you automate routine tasks such as inventory management and software licensing. Establish IT Policies and Procedures IT policies and procedures are essential for effective IT resource management solutions. They help ensure that all IT resources are used in a consistent, secure, and compliant manner. Your policies and procedures should cover topics such as data security, IT asset management, software licensing, and user access. Train your IT staff Your IT staff plays a crucial role in managing your IT resources. It’s important to train them on best practices for IT resource management, including IT policies and procedures, IT asset management, and cybersecurity. This will help ensure that your IT resources are used effectively and securely. Regularly monitor and review your IT resources IT resources are constantly changing, and you need to monitor and review them regularly to ensure that they are performing optimally. Regular monitoring and review can help you identify potential issues before they become critical and take corrective action. Utilize Cloud Computing Cloud computing is known for its flexibility, scalability, and cost-effectiveness. It allows you to store and access data and applications over the internet, eliminating the need for physical storage and hardware. Utilizing cloud computing will help you to reduce IT costs, improve productivity, and increase flexibility. Non-Project Time Monitor time spent on non-project related activities and make sure to include them in both short and long-term planning, such as administrative work and paid time off. Consider unexpected project tasks and establish a system for keeping track of non-project time. Acknowledge that routine tasks like email and meetings take up time and utilize resource planning tools that incorporate non-project time and time off. Conclusion Effective IT support management is essential for organizations to meet their business goals and objectives while efficiently utilizing limited resources. By adopting these practices, organizations can optimize their IT resources and improve their overall productivity and profitability. Google wants to rescue the internet, and it’s focusing on different measures to evaluate website performance. With that idea, Google introduced something called Core Web Vitals. This may sound like an ordinary standard, but it’s a big deal for how your website shows up in Google’s search results. What Are Google Core Web Vitals? In May 2020, Google introduced Core Web Vitals as a means of offering consistent direction on the quality indicators of a website. The Core Web Vitals is a set of metrics created by Google that provide developers with insight into how users experience a webpage. Although designed for developers, all site owners can benefit from these tools since they offer a breakdown of a user’s real-world experience on a page. The Core Web Vitals generate metrics in three primary areas: page loading performance, ease of interaction, and visual stability from the user’s perspective. Each of these metrics focuses on different aspects that affect how users interact with a website. While developers should approach user experience completely, these metrics provide a way to break down the various elements into smaller parts, allowing site owners to identify and address technical issues across their websites. It is important to note that these metrics alone cannot fully describe the user experience on a website, but they can be combined to help developers troubleshoot problems efficiently and systematically. Three main metrics that make up Core Web Vitals Largest Contentful Paint (LCP): Largest Contentful Paint or LCP measures the loading performance of a web page by tracking the time it takes for the largest content element to load, whether it is an image, video, or text block. According to Google, a good LCP score should be under 2.5 seconds, while anything above 4 seconds is considered poor. To optimize LCP, you can reduce server response time, optimize images and videos, and eliminate render-blocking resources. First Input Delay (FID): First Input Delay or FID measures the interactivity of a web page by tracking the time between a user’s first interaction and the response of the web page. This interaction could be clicking a button, scrolling, or typing in a form field. Google recommends an FID score of fewer than 100 milliseconds, while anything above 300 milliseconds is considered poor. To optimize FID, you can minimize third-party scripts, optimize JavaScript code, and use a browser cache. Cumulative Layout Shift (CLS): Cumulative Layout Shift or CLS measures the visual stability of a web page by tracking the number of unexpected layout shifts that occur during the loading process. A layout shift occurs when a page element moves from its original position due to slow-loading resources or changes in the viewport. A good CLS score should be less than 0.1, while anything above 0.25 is considered poor. To optimize CLS, you can set size attributes for images and videos, reserve space for ads, and preload fonts. What is the Importance of Core Web Vitals for Your Website? Improved User Experience One of the primary benefits of optimizing for Core Web Vitals is that it can significantly improve the user experience of your website. Studies have shown that users are more likely to engage with websites that load quickly and provide a smooth browsing experience. By improving your website’s loading speed, interactivity, and visual stability, you can provide a better experience for your users and increase engagement on your website. Better Search Engine Rankings Aside from improving the user experience, optimizing for Core Web Vitals can also help improve your website’s search engine rankings. Google has explicitly stated that Core Web Vitals will be a ranking factor in their search algorithm starting in May 2021. This means that websites that perform well on these metrics are more likely to rank higher in search engine results pages (SERPs). This can be especially important for small businesses or individuals who rely on search engine traffic to drive business. Competitive Advantage Another reason to prioritize Core Web Vitals is that it can give you a competitive advantage in your industry. Many website owners are unaware of the importance of these metrics or simply do not have the resources to optimize for them. By focusing on Core Web Vitals, you can differentiate your website from competitors and provide a better experience for your users. Business Success A good user experience can have a direct impact on business success. A website that loads quickly, responds quickly to user input, and provides a stable and predictable visual experience is more likely to keep users engaged, leading to increased conversions, sales, and revenue. On the other hand, a poor user experience can lead to increased bounce rates, reduced engagement, and lower conversions. This can have a direct impact on a business’s bottom line. The Bottom Line Core Web Vitals are important because they provide website owners with actionable data that can be used to improve the performance of their websites. By measuring and tracking these metrics, website owners can identify areas where their site may be lagging and take steps to address those issues. All business proprietors who have a website aim to stand out in search results. Although there are numerous strategies to improve local rankings, there is no single, foolproof solution. Effective SEO services typically require a combination of approaches. One approach to increase visibility is to provide clients with accurate information, such as business hours and contact details. This can be accomplished through Google Business Profile, which was previously known as Google My Business. What is Google My Business? Google My Business (GMB) is a free tool offered by Google that enables businesses to create and manage their online presence across Google, including search and maps. It allows businesses to create a listing that appears when people search for their business or related keywords. The listing typically includes the business name, address, phone number, hours of operation, photos, reviews, and other relevant information. Through Google My Business, businesses can also create posts, add events, and showcase products or services. Additionally, GMB provides valuable insights about how customers interact with the business, such as how many people viewed their listing, how many people clicked through to their website, and how many people called their business. Why is Google My Business Important for Local SEO Services? Accurate and Consistent Information Keeping your business information accurate and consistent across platforms is crucial for local SEO. Google My Business (GMB) makes it easy to share up-to-date details like your address, phone number, and operating hours on Google’s platforms. Consistency builds trust with potential customers and strengthens your online reputation, ensuring they always have the right information to find and contact your business. Mobile Optimization With mobile searches on the rise, it’s essential for businesses to be easily accessible on smartphones. GMB is optimized for mobile devices, making it simple for customers to find your location, contact you, or get directions on the go. This convenience helps bridge the gap between online searches and in-person visits. Enhances Local SEO Google My Business is a cornerstone of local SEO, helping your business rank higher in local search results. By providing accurate and keyword-rich information about your business, GMB helps Google understand your offerings, making it easier to connect you with customers searching for your products or services in your area. Increases Website Traffic Adding your website link to your GMB listing allows potential customers to visit your site directly with a single click. This drives more traffic to your website, creating opportunities to generate leads and boost sales. Plus, a well-maintained GMB listing can improve your site’s search engine rankings, attracting even more visitors. Boosts Online Presence A Google My Business listing significantly enhances your online visibility. When people search for businesses, products, or services, GMB helps ensure your business appears prominently in search results. Your listing can also show up on Google Maps, making it easier for local customers to discover and connect with you. This increased visibility can lead to more foot traffic and online inquiries. In the End Google My Business is an important tool for businesses looking to improve their online presence and attract more customers. If you’re looking for SEO services to help optimize your Google My Business listing, consider hiring a local SEO services provider or a company that offers the best SEO services to help you achieve your goals. Social media marketing has become an essential tool for small businesses to connect with their target audience, build brand awareness, and drive sales. With billions of active users on various platforms, it is imperative to develop a well-defined social media marketing strategy to maximize your business’s online presence. Effective social media marketing is a strategic approach for small businesses. Unlike larger companies that have dedicated resources and time, small businesses must be flexible, quick, and imaginative. Merely investing money in a problem and hoping for success is not enough. It is crucial to intelligently utilize social media to connect with your desired audience. 1. Determine Your Goals To effectively use social media marketing services for your business, it is essential to connect your overall business objectives with specific social media goals. This alignment allows you to identify the exact steps and actions necessary to fulfill your business needs and make the most of your social media efforts. It is important to identify what you want to achieve through social media. It could be to increase brand awareness, drive website traffic, generate leads, or boost sales. By clearly defining your objectives, you can align your efforts and measure your success. 2. Which Social Media Platform do you Want? Each social media platform has its own advantages and disadvantages, allowing you to choose wisely based on your preferences. To save time and prevent feeling overwhelmed by your content schedule, it’s helpful to start with platforms that align well with your business. For instance, Instagram is ideal for businesses that want to showcase visual products like clothing or jewelry. Twitter, on the other hand, is great for building relationships and providing customer service. As the most popular platform online, Facebook is definitely worth trying out. Along with creating a Facebook page for your company and sharing updates, you can also create a community by liking pages related to your industry. This way, you can attract new followers who are genuinely interested in your field. 3. Keep Up with the Latest Trends It is important to stay updated on the latest trends if you want your business to succeed. To do this, you should keep yourself informed about what’s happening in the digital world. You can read blogs, magazines, books, and other publications that talk about new technologies and innovations related to your industry. It’s also helpful to join groups, attend events, and connect with professionals in your field. This way, you’ll know which new communication channels are being used by consumers. 4. Create Social Media Calendar Social media calendars will help you bring out your creativity for every platform. You can take inspiration from your competitors and analyze their posting patterns, post types, the theme of their posts, and post frequency. When you review their work, you will be able to craft a calendar for yourself and create a strategy that works for your small business. You can highlight daily tasks and goals according to the social media calendar. Posting on your social media platforms frequently with respect to your calendar will help you engage your audience and keeps them wanting more. 5. Make Use of Influencer Marketing Working together with other companies or influencers can be a fantastic strategy for your small business to boost your visibility and reach more people. It’s like a win-win situation for everyone involved! But here’s the secret: you need to find the right influencer. Think of it as finding the perfect dance partner or the yin to your yang. Let’s say you own a beauty salon. Instead of teaming up with an accountant (who doesn’t really have anything to do with beauty), it would make much more sense to join forces with a talented hairstylist. Not only do they share the same industry, but they also target similar types of customers. Now, that’s a match made in heaven! But don’t stop there. There are other potential partners out there too, like trade show vendors, suppliers, and manufacturers who are in the same ballpark as your business. These people understand your world and can offer valuable collaboration opportunities. So, don’t be afraid to explore those connections and build relationships that can take your business to new heights. Remember, finding the right collaboration is the key to creating a powerful alliance and unlocking exciting opportunities. 6. Engage and Interact with Your Audience Social media marketing for small businesses is all about building relationships and fostering a sense of community. You must enagage with your audience and respond to their comments, messages, and mentions as much as you can. Ask questions, run polls, and encourage discussions to encourage interaction. Show appreciation for your followers and collaborate with influencers or partners to expand your reach. 7. Exciting Giveaways You can spice things up with exciting contests or giveaways that revolve around your fabulous products or services. Try to make it super easy for people to participate and set up a simple form on your website where they can enter. You can also spread the excitement across social media platforms like Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, and more. If you are giving away a cool physical prize like a trendy t-shirt or a mug, you can include the shipping cost in the item’s price, so your winners can enjoy their goodies hassle-free. So, get ready to ignite some serious engagement with awesome contests or giveaways. It is surely a surefire way to captivate your audience and keep them coming back for more. 8. Track and Analyze Your Results To measure the effectiveness of your social media marketing services, use analytics tools provided by each platform. Monitor key metrics such as engagement rates, click-through rates, reach, and conversions. This data will help you identify what’s working and what needs improvement. Adjust your strategy accordingly and focus on tactics that generate the best results. The Bottom Line Social media marketing services are a valuable tool for small businesses to connect with their target audience, build brand awareness, and drive sales. To make the most of social media, it is important to align your goals with specific social media objectives. Stay focused, be authentic, and keep experimenting with different tactics to find what works best for your unique business. Embrace the opportunities social media presents, and watch your small business thrive in the digital world. Small businesses often overlook the importance of implementing business intelligence strategies. There is a common misconception among business owners that AI and BI are only suitable for large corporations with significant financial resources. While it is true that many big companies use BI, small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) can also benefit from these tools. Thus, the implementation of BI solutions is not limited to large firms only. Businesses are relying more and more on Business Intelligence (BI) to make informed decisions. Small businesses, in particular, can greatly benefit from Business Intelligence services, as it can provide them with the insights, they need to make better decisions and improve their operations. So, here we will discuss how BI works for small companies, the benefits it can bring, and the different BI solutions available. What is Business Intelligence? Business intelligence refers to the use of data, analytics, and reporting tools to gain insights and make informed decisions that drive business performance. Business intelligence solutions can include a variety of services and technologies, such as data warehousing, data mining, predictive analytics, and visualization tools. Business analytics services are a subset of business intelligence that focus specifically on the analysis of data to identify trends, patterns, and opportunities for improvement. These services may include data modeling, statistical analysis, and machine learning algorithms.. Business Intelligence Services and Solutions for Small Companies Business intelligence services and solutions are designed to help small companies collect and analyze data from various sources. The process involves using technology, tools, and methods to transform raw data into meaningful information. BI solutions can range from simple dashboards to complex data warehouses and predictive analytics tools. Here are some of the most common business intelligence services and solutions for small companies: Data Collection The first step in implementing a business intelligence (BI) solution is gathering relevant data from various sources, including sales, customer interactions, and financial records. This can be done manually or automated using tools like sensors and data collection software to streamline the process. Data Processing After collecting the data, it’s essential to clean, organize, and process it to ensure accuracy and reliability. This step involves removing duplicates, fixing errors, and converting the data into a format suitable for analysis. Data Analysis Once the data is ready, it’s time to analyze it using BI tools and techniques. This may include data visualization, statistical analysis, and predictive modeling to uncover trends, patterns, and insights. Data Visualization Data visualization involves creating easy-to-understand visual representations of data, such as charts, graphs, and dashboards. These visuals make it simpler for businesses to interpret their data and communicate findings to stakeholders effectively. Reporting Reporting focuses on presenting insights in a clear, organized manner through dashboards, detailed reports, or presentations. Reports can be generated automatically or customized to meet the specific needs of a business. Actionable Insights The ultimate purpose of business intelligence is to provide actionable insights. These insights empower businesses to improve operations, boost revenue, and enhance customer satisfaction. They inform key decisions in areas like marketing, sales, customer service, and product development. Effective Business Intelligence Tools for Small Businesses 1. Tableau Tableau is a leading data visualization tool that can help small businesses analyze and present their data in an intuitive and easy-to-understand way. It allows users to create interactive dashboards, reports, and charts that can be shared with others in the organization. Tableau supports various data sources, including spreadsheets, databases, and cloud services, making it easy for small businesses to connect and analyze their data. 2. Power BI Power BI is a business analytics service by Microsoft that provides interactive visualizations with self-service business intelligence capabilities. It allows small businesses to connect to various data sources, analyze their data, and share insights with others in the organization. 3. Google Analytics Google Analytics is a web analytics service that tracks and reports website traffic, providing insights into user behavior, website performance, and more. Small businesses can use Google Analytics to gain insights into their website traffic, track their marketing campaigns, and improve their online presence. In The End Business intelligence is a powerful tool that can help small businesses gain a competitive edge by providing insights into their operations, customers, and markets. By leveraging BI solutions and services, small businesses can make informed decisions based on data, increase efficiency, and improve customer engagement. Implementing a business intelligence solution may seem daunting, but with the right approach, it can be a game-changer for small businesses looking to succeed in today’s data-driven business landscape. Selecting the top digital marketing agency can be crucial for your small business’s success. Choosing the wrong one can quickly deplete your budget and have a negative impact on your brand. To help you find the best digital marketing agency that can fuel your business growth, I suggest the following strategy. We will provide you with a list of strategies that can help you pick the right agency for your small business. So, let’s begin. Understand Your Goals Before engaging the services of a digital marketing agency, it’s important to assess your brand’s requirements. Clearly defining your goals enables effective communication and ensures desired outcomes. By identifying your internal needs, your company can effectively narrow down potential agencies right from the start. It’s crucial to determine your budget, but more importantly, understand the reasons behind your decision to hire an agency. This is the initial step. Whether you aim to introduce a new product or service or simply want to establish an online community, it’s essential to clarify your motivations for partnering with an agency and devise an internal plan accordingly. This approach will positively streamline your agency search process. Research is Important By conducting thorough research, you can save valuable time and money in the long term. This will enable you to determine which agencies are trustworthy and have a proven track record of success. In the digital marketing industry, there are numerous agencies available, but not all of them can deliver the service you desire. This makes it challenging to find the perfect fit. During your search, you will come across various agencies, but it is crucial to ensure that the agency you choose aligns with your expectations and objectives. Complete Transparency The absence of transparency is a fundamental and often ignored warning sign. When reviewing an agency’s website, if you can’t find their address, team biographies, or client list, it is likely that this agency is not worth your time. If an agency seems like it is hiding something, it probably is. It is as simple as that. For instance, there are many offshore agencies that make grand promises at low prices. Credible Reputation It’s essential to assess the credibility and experience of the digital marketing services you are considering. Take the time to read client testimonials on their website and check review platforms like Clutch, Expertise, and even Yelp. Do the testimonials appear genuine? Don’t hesitate to ask for client references, including one from a project that didn’t go as smoothly. Every agency has encountered challenges, and it’s valuable to understand how they handled such situations, in addition to receiving recommendations from successful projects. Instead of emailing, consider calling these references as it often yields more information. Determine Service Cost and ROI While cost is an important factor, it should not be the sole criterion for selecting an affordable digital marketing agency. Instead, focus on the return on investment (ROI) they can provide. A good agency will work within your budget to maximize results and provide transparent reporting on the effectiveness of their campaigns. Request quotes and proposals from multiple agencies and compare them based on the services offered, pricing models (fixed fee or performance-based), and the projected ROI. Avoid agencies that offer excessively low prices, as they may compromise on quality and effectiveness. Create a Customized Proposal Once you have narrowed down your options, request a tailored proposal from the shortlisted agencies. A well-crafted proposal should outline its strategy, deliverables, timeline, and pricing structure. Assess how well the agency’s proposal aligns with your goals and expectations. Look for agencies that provide customized solutions rather than offering a one-size-fits-all approach. Evaluate the proposed timeline and ensure it is realistic and feasible for your business. Discuss the key performance indicators (KPIs) they will use to measure the success of their campaigns and how they will track and report progress to you. Conclusion By following the strategies outlined above, you can navigate through the overwhelming options and find the best digital marketing agency that meets your specific needs. Taking the time to find the best-fit agency will ensure a fruitful partnership that drives your business growth and helps you achieve your digital marketing objectives. Remember, a reliable and skilled digital marketing agency can be a valuable asset in today’s world, so choose wisely and enjoy the benefits of effective online marketing. It is not unexpected that Artificial Intelligence is being integrated into web development. Some tools can create a website with text and images in just a few minutes, even though the templates are not perfect yet. While AI-powered platforms can’t compete with skilled web developers, they can still assist with various tasks and solve repetitive chores to make work easier and faster. These tools can be especially useful for web developers who want to improve their workflow. With the help of AI tools, web development has become more efficient, streamlined, and effective. AI tools can perform various tasks such as automated testing, coding, debugging, website optimization, and other web development services. Here, we will give you a list of 10 useful AI tools that can allow web developers to excel and achieve their business goals. GitHub Copilot GitHub is a famous website where developers store and share their computer code. They have created an AI assistant called Copilot, which uses a technology called OpenAI Codex to suggest code and functions in real time. This tool can work with many programming languages and can take regular English sentences and turn them into code. The goal is to help developers code faster and better so they can make high-quality software. To use GitHub Copilot, you need to add it as an extension to your code editor. It works with popular editors like Visual Studio Code, Visual Studio, JetBrains IDEs, and Neovim. After installing it, GitHub Copilot acts like a partner in coding. You can ask it to review your code and generate code suggestions for you. However, these suggestions may not always be perfect. GitHub Copilot learns from publicly available code, so it’s important to check the suggestions for errors before using them. Hugging Face Hugging Face is an innovative AI-powered platform that simplifies the process of building and deploying natural language processing (NLP) models. With a variety of pre-built models, APIs, and integrations, it enables developers to create applications like chatbots, language translation tools, and text classification systems quickly and efficiently. Google Cloud Vision API The Google Cloud Vision API is a powerful cloud-based tool for building computer vision applications. It provides pre-built models, APIs, and integrations that simplify the development process, making it ideal for creating applications like object detection, image recognition, and face detection. Debuild Debuild is a lifesaver for those in the early stages of web development, offering an affordable and efficient way to create proof-of-concepts or prototypes. Using AI, it generates SQL and React components to quickly produce functional apps, leaving only the user interface for developers to design. Sketch2Code Microsoft’s Sketch2Code transforms hand-drawn sketches into functional HTML templates, bridging the gap between concept and code. By leveraging AI, it identifies objects in sketches, predicts their size and position, and converts them into accurate HTML snippets. While occasional adjustments are needed, the tool significantly reduces the time and effort required in website development. Uizard Uizard is a cutting-edge prototyping tool that uses AI to turn hand-drawn sketches into high-quality, functional prototypes in no time. It's ideal for designing landing pages, mobile apps, and SaaS applications. With support for HTML & CSS, React, and Android code generation, Uizard helps developers refine ideas and meet client needs quickly and efficiently. IBM Watson Studio IBM Watson Studio is a versatile, cloud-based AI platform designed to streamline the development, training, and deployment of AI models. Offering tools for data preparation, model development, and seamless deployment, it helps developers integrate AI capabilities into web projects effortlessly with pre-built APIs and models. TensorFlow TensorFlow is a widely used open-source AI library that empowers developers to build and train machine learning models for web applications. With its range of APIs and tools, TensorFlow supports the creation of applications like image recognition, language translation, and speech recognition, making it a go-to resource for machine learning development. Mintlify Mintlify simplifies the often tedious task of documentation creation in web development. Using AI, it scans code to generate clear and accurate documentation, improving readability and streamlining workflows. With integrations for platforms like Slack, Dropbox, and GitHub, Mintlify saves time and enhances productivity in managing development projects. Dialogflow Owned by Google, Dialogflow is a robust platform for creating conversational AI interfaces like chatbots and voice assistants. It enables businesses to enhance customer service and engagement by providing tools for building automated systems that interact naturally with users, making it an excellent choice for modern customer-facing solutions In the End AI tools have revolutionized the world of web development, providing developers with a range of options to streamline their development process and create more sophisticated websites and applications. By leveraging these tools, companies can improve the user experience, automate customer service, and gain valuable insights from data. As the field of AI continues to advance, we can expect to see even more innovative tools and services emerge to help developers build smarter, more powerful web applications. Software engineering teams are always looking for ways to improve and speed up the process of creating and evolving software programs. One popular strategy to use DevOps practices, which is an engineering technique that brings together the development and operations aspects. In traditional engineering companies, the development and operations teams are often separated, and this can lead to conflicts between them. Developers are focused on creating and releasing more code, while operations engineers are responsible for preventing errors and deploying software without bugs. This situation often results in operations teams acting as gatekeepers, slowing down the deployment process. DevOps Culture Best Practices DevOps Engineers address this challenge by promoting collaboration and teamwork between the development and operations/quality assurance teams. In DevOps best practices, there is no need for a gatekeeper because the same group of people is responsible for the entire software development life cycle. However, building a strong DevOps culture is necessary for achieving long-term success. So, here, we will discuss the best practices a company needs to build a DevOps culture. Setting a Solid Foundation In order to appear flexible, establishing a solid foundation is important for any business, and this can be achieved by combining cultural and technological practices. Sometimes, people tend to ignore the significance of cultural practices that foster empathy, connection, and shared goals. However, these practices, along with technical practices that speed up the delivery of valuable results and increase their frequency, are crucial for organizations that strive to consistently innovate and progress. Build a Strong Team The DevOps team is the essential building block for all other endeavors. The team’s ability to work together directly impacts their effectiveness in creating and deploying applications. Each team member must have a willingness to collaborate and communicate with others, regardless of whether they are developers, testers, operations professionals, or security experts. Everyone must share a mindset that recognizes the value of working together towards common goals. Furthermore, a diverse team contributes to a culture of collaboration. Having team members from various backgrounds and experiences encourages individuals to think outside the box when faced with problems and find solutions. Different perspectives, unique insights, and innovative thinking are brought to the table by individuals with diverse backgrounds, enhancing the team’s overall capabilities. Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery (CI/CD) You must embrace the concept of Azure DevOps Best Practices of Continuous Integration and Delivery (CI/CD). This involves regularly adding small portions of code to a central repository, which helps developers collaborate effectively. By doing this, the repository consistently remains in a good state as you introduce manageable changes. Continuous Integration (CI) ensures early identification of errors and enhances code quality because these small code changes undergo automated builds and tests to validate them. Use Automation Encouraging automation is another important strategy to prioritize. By automating tasks that are repetitive and consume a lot of time, you can free up valuable time for more important and strategic work while minimizing the risk of human mistakes. Embracing tools that automate processes allows teams to concentrate on work that adds value and can greatly influence the DevOps culture. There are numerous tools available that can automate tasks related to building, testing, and deploying software. Use the Right DevOps Tools Using appropriate DevOps tools is essential for a successful DevOps culture. To enhance software quality and expedite the delivery process, it is important to have the right tools for each stage of the DevOps lifecycle. It is recommended to learn more about selecting suitable DevOps tools and assessing their functionalities for each phase of the DevOps lifecycle. Aim for Customer Satisfaction The objective of DevOps best practices is to meet the expectations of customers, regardless of whether you utilize the conventional waterfall model or embrace a comprehensive DevOps approach. Modern SaaS customers have specific requirements, such as frequent updates and swift delivery of new features. Promote a DevOps Approach To build any culture, you need to establish a mindset to work for the process. In order to employ DevOps culture best practices, you are required to shift your mindset. Encourage individuals to adopt a DevOps mindset, which emphasizes shared responsibility, ownership, and continuous collaboration. Promote the values of trust, respect, and empathy within teams. By nurturing a DevOps mindset, organizations can overcome resistance to change and foster a culture of innovation and excellence. Emphasize on Security and Compliance Security and compliance should be an integral part of any Azure DevOps security best practices. DevOps engineers should prioritize incorporating security practices and compliance requirements into the software development lifecycle. This includes conducting regular security assessments, implementing secure coding practices, and integrating security testing throughout the development process. By embedding security and compliance from the early stages, organizations can minimize risks and ensure the integrity of their systems. Obtain Regular Feedback Regular feedback ensures that DevOps service providers and team members have all the necessary information on time to carry out their tasks effectively. From a development perspective, this means that the team is immediately alerted to any failures in the development process. It also means that developers are provided with clear and comprehensive results from code tests as quickly as possible. From a product management viewpoint, the team is informed about any issues with production, performance deficiencies, or reported bugs. 10. Measure and Track Key Metrics To gauge the effectiveness of your DevOps as service practices and culture, establish key performance indicators (KPIs) and metrics. Measure metrics such as deployment frequency, lead time, mean time to recovery, and customer satisfaction. Regularly track these metrics and use the insights to identify areas for improvement, set benchmarks, and drive accountability within teams. Conclusion Establishing a best DevOps practices in 2024 is extremely important for organizations that want to make the most of DevOps and enhance their software delivery capabilities. DevOps service providers have a significant role to play in assisting businesses in building this culture. DevOps is more than just using tools and following certain practices. It represents a change in the way we work and requires dedication, commitment, and a mindset of constantly getting better. By following these ten best practices, your organization and DevOps service providers like Arpatech can establish a solid foundation for a successful DevOps journey. Running a successful physical business likely means you already understand the basics of marketing. However, attracting customers to your online store can be a whole new ballgame. With an e-commerce business, you have the advantage of reaching a much wider audience and controlling every aspect of their shopping experience. But success doesn’t happen automatically, In today’s world, digital marketing is a must for any business, and e-commerce is no exception. As online shopping continues to grow, having a solid digital marketing strategy is essential to stay competitive. Here, we’ll explore ten effective digital marketing strategies to help take your e-commerce business to the next level. Build a User-Friendly Website The first step to a successful e-commerce business is to build a user-friendly website that offers a seamless shopping experience. It is essential to ensure that your website is easy to navigate, loads quickly, and is mobile-friendly. It is recommended to work with an e-commerce web development company that can create a website that aligns with your brand and offers a hassle-free shopping experience. Optimize for Search Engines SEO, or Search Engine Optimization, is all about improving your website to rank higher in search engine results. A well-optimized website boosts your visibility and brings in more organic traffic. To get the best results, consider partnering with an experienced digital marketing agency or consultant. They can guide you through essential steps like keyword research, on-page optimization, and link building, helping your site reach its full potential. Pay-Per-Click Advertising Pay-Per-Click or PPC advertising refers to a type of internet advertising where the advertiser pays for each click that a user makes on their advertisement. By running targeted PPC ads on platforms such as Google AdWords and Facebook Ads, you can increase visibility and drive traffic to your website. It is recommended to work with an experienced digital marketing agency or digital marketing specialist who can help you create effective PPC campaigns that align with your business goals. Retargeting Retargeting is a form of online advertising where advertisers target users who have previously visited their website but did not convert. By showing targeted ads to these users, you can increase the chances of them returning to your website and making a purchase. It is recommended to work with an experienced digital marketing agency or digital marketing specialist who can help you set up effective retargeting campaigns that can help increase sales and conversions. Product Description To create clear descriptions for your products, it is recommended to include a comprehensive size chart for clothing or accessories. This will assist customers in selecting the appropriate size and reduce the number of returned items. Additionally, featuring customer feedback may be helpful. It is also important to have an FAQ page that provides useful information to customers and includes relevant keywords to boost your SEO. The more you invest in creating detailed descriptions, the easier it will be for customers to make informed purchasing decisions. Customer Reviews Customer reviews play a significant role in the success of an e-commerce business. Having positive feedback can establish confidence and reliability towards prospective buyers, motivating them to make a purchase. It is essential to make it easy for customers to leave reviews on your website and other review platforms such as Yelp, Google Reviews, and Trustpilot. Responding to both positive and negative reviews can also show that you value your customers’ feedback and are willing to make improvements to your products and services. Influencer Marketing Influencers are individuals who possess a significant online fan base and have the ability to impact their followers’ buying decisions. Collaborating with an appropriate influencer can help expose your product to a vast audience, resulting in increased brand recognition. To optimize the effectiveness of influencer marketing, it’s crucial to ensure that the influencer you select has a following that corresponds to your target market and shares your brand’s principles. Influencer marketing strategies often involve the influencer creating content, such as a blog post endorsing your product, publishing social media posts reviewing or showcasing your product, or discussing your product at an event. Create Quality Content Content is king in digital marketing. Creating quality content is an effective way to attract and engage your target audience. You can create various types of content such as blog posts, videos, infographics, podcasts, and more. By creating quality content, you can establish yourself as an authority in your niche and build trust with your audience. Offer Discounts and Promotions Discounts and promotions are an effective way to attract and retain customers. You can offer discounts and promotions on your website or through email marketing campaigns to incentivize customers to purchase. You can offer various types of discounts such as percentage discounts, buy-one-get-one offers, free shipping, and more. Use Analytics and Data-Driven Insights Analytics and data-driven insights are crucial for measuring the effectiveness of your digital marketing strategies designed by digital marketing specialists. By using analytics tools such as Google Analytics, you can track various metrics such as website traffic, conversion rates, and customer behavior. By analyzing this data, you can identify areas for improvement and make data-driven decisions to improve your digital marketing strategies. In the End Implementing these ten digital marketing strategies can help boost your e-commerce business and improve your bottom line. Work with an e-commerce web development company, digital marketing consultant, digital marketing specialist, or digital marketing agency to develop and execute a digital marketing strategy that aligns with your e-commerce business. If you work as a digital marketer and want to improve your marketing strategies and ROI, it’s important to know about some useful tools. Digital marketing tools can help you plan and implement effective strategies more easily. These tools are designed to help you stay organized and make adjustments whenever necessary which ultimately reflects on your business revenue. As a digital marketing specialist or consultant, you require tools to automate routine tasks, improve your abilities, work together more efficiently, and increase your successful efforts. With regards to digital marketing tools, there are thousands of choices accessible, including hundreds of options for each channel or type of task. So, here we will navigate the constantly changing world of digital marketing tools. We have compiled the best tools for individuals ranging from beginner marketers to managers of large corporations. Keep reading to learn about a range of digital marketing tools that can help you excel in your industry. Google Analytics Google Analytics is a free tool that provides valuable insights into website traffic and user behavior. As a digital marketing consultant, specialist, or firm, you can use this tool to track your website’s performance and measure the success of your marketing campaigns. With Google Analytics, you can monitor user behavior, track conversion rates, and understand where your traffic is coming from. This information can help you optimize your website and marketing campaigns for better results. Google Analytics is a free tool and it works best when used together with Google Search Console, which is also a free digital marketing tool that assists in recognizing any issues on your website and optimizing it for increased traffic. MailChimp MailChimp is a digital marketing tool that helps to automate and manage social media advertising and email marketing campaigns. It is among the top digital marketing tools you can use to enhance your campaigns and monitor the traffic produced. Additionally, the platform offers numerous integrations with various SaaS companies. The tool is especially useful for email campaigns, enabling you to interact with your audience effectively. MailChimp has pre-designed, adaptable email automation that simplifies the process of targeting the appropriate audience at the appropriate time. The great thing is that you can ensure your brand stays in your customers’ thoughts by sending them happy birthday greetings, welcome automation, and order notifications that will leave them feeling pleased. SEMrush SEMrush is an all-in-one digital marketing tool that provides insights into SEO, PPC, content marketing, and social media. With SEMrush, you can conduct keyword research, analyze your competitors’ digital marketing strategies, and track your website’s performance. This tool is a must-have for any digital marketing consultant or firm, as it provides valuable insights that can help you optimize your digital marketing campaigns for better results. Canva As a digital marketing specialist, you must understand the importance of quality design tool that can assist you in creating impressive social media posts and other marketing materials. Canva is a well-known design tool that enables you to develop successful marketing campaigns using visual content that can be shared on your blogs, websites, social media platforms, and other channels. Visual content is the foundation of any digital marketing campaign, and in order to attract your intended audience, you need to create captivating posts. Canva’s easy-to-use drag-and-drop design allows you to create visual elements based on your campaign’s needs. The best part is that you don’t need an experienced designer to create visual content for your digital marketing campaign. It is so simple that anyone, regardless of their design background, can use it. Trello If you’re seeking a content management tool that can assist you in brainstorming and strategizing content for your digital marketing campaign, Trello is a good option. It is among the most commonly used content management tools by numerous digital marketing consultants and firms worldwide for creating, scheduling, and organizing content online. The platform helps to keep the whole team together, simplifying communication and making it more manageable. You can assign multiple team members to a single card to work on a project together. This allows you to keep track of who is responsible for designing, writing, editing, posting, and adding call-to-action offers to a post. Google AdWords Google AdWords is a widely-used method for promoting your business on Google’s search engine results pages, using a pay-per-click or pay-per-call structure to determine payment. The Google Keyword Planner is available within Google AdWords, allowing you to investigate and identify the keywords you want to include in your advertisements and other content. You may also establish budget limits on your expenses. This tool aids in increasing the number of Buffer Buffer is a social media management tool that allows you to schedule social media posts, track engagement, and analyze social media performance. Buffer makes managing multiple social media accounts a breeze, all from one convenient platform. It’s also a great tool for collaborating with your team to plan and execute impactful social media campaigns. Whether you’re a digital marketing consultant or a specialist, Buffer helps you simplify your workflow, stay organized, and get the most out of your social media efforts for better results Google Tag Manager Google Tag Manager is a tool that allows you to add tracking codes to your website without having to modify your website’s code. With Google Tag Manager, you can track website events, such as clicks, form submissions, and video plays. This information is essential for optimizing your website and improving your digital marketing strategy. Visme Visme is a free and user-friendly design tool that is ideal for creating complex designs such as presentations and infographics. It offers a wide range of professionally-crafted templates to choose from, and is more suitable for advanced designs than Canva. Visme is well-suited for creating corporate-style explainer videos, which are helpful for internal team assets. Its selection of business-oriented templates makes it simple to produce videos that align with your business objectives, both for internal and external use. Ahrefs Ahrefs is a tool that provides insights into your website’s SEO performance and backlink profile. It allows you to see which pages are ranking high in search engine results, which keywords are driving traffic to your website, and which websites are linking to your website. This information is essential for improving your website’s SEO performance and building high-quality backlinks. In the End By utilizing the appropriate tools, you can simplify your marketing campaigns and automate several tasks. You can use any of the tools mentioned above to create a strong foundation for your digital marketing strategy. Experiment with various tools to find the ones that fit your business and budget. Once you have identified the right tools, you can proceed with your campaigns with confidence and gain a better understanding of your marketing endeavors. If you have made the decision to transfer your infrastructure and work to the cloud, it is important to understand that there is no easy and quick way to migrate everything. The migration process requires careful planning and consideration of various factors specific to your infrastructure. The time it takes to complete the migration depends on the size, complexity, and purpose of your infrastructure, as well as the type of migration project you are undertaking. It can range from a few months to a year or more. This step-by-step guide will walk you through the process of successfully migrating your website to the cloud using managed cloud services. Step 1: Assess Your Current Website First thing first, before embarking on the migration process, it is crucial to assess your current website thoroughly. Understand its architecture, dependencies, and performance metrics. Evaluate the hardware and software requirements, including the database, applications, and server configurations. Identify potential bottlenecks or limitations that might impact the migration process. This evaluation will provide a solid foundation for planning the migration strategy. Rebuilding: In this strategy, the application is completely redesigned and rewritten to be optimized for the cloud environment. Step 2: Choose a Managed Cloud Service Provider When migrating your website to the cloud, choosing the right managed cloud service provider is a critical decision that can greatly impact the success of your migration. Ensure that the cloud service provider has a robust and reliable infrastructure. Look for providers that have a proven track record of high uptime and availability. This ensures that your website remains accessible to users and minimizes any potential downtime. Verify that the cloud service provider has expertise and experience in supporting the technology stack used by your website. Other factors that contribute to this are the security of the cloud service provider, cost, efficiency, and appropriate cloud architecture. Step 3: Choose Your Cloud Migration Strategy As an organization when you decide to move to the cloud, you can choose from various strategies for the migration process. These strategies depend on factors like available resources, system requirements, and business goals. Here are some commonly used migration strategies: Rehosting: This strategy, also known as “lift and shift,” involves moving existing applications and data to the cloud with minimal changes. Refactoring: With this approach, the application code is modified to make use of the cloud’s unique features and performance improvements. Replatforming: Enterprises adopt this strategy by migrating their applications to a new platform in the cloud, leveraging cloud-based services and infrastructure. Step 4: Pick Your Automation Tools Many tools are available to simplify the migration process and handle the challenging tasks. These tools help companies migrate quickly, saving costs and minimizing risks. When there are numerous components to migrate and many performance tests to conduct, automation becomes essential to make sure that everything functions as intended. Cloud providers offer their own automation tools, such as AWS Server Migration Service, Azure Migrate, and Migrate for Compute Engine. Moreover, there are versatile solutions provided by software vendors. It is important to note that cloud migration doesn’t eliminate the need for IT specialists to work with environments and deployments. DevOps specialists can replace manual tasks with just a few lines of code, optimizing the entire process. Step 5: Prepare for Migration Create a detailed migration plan that outlines the specific steps and timeline for the migration process. Develop a backup strategy to ensure data safety during the transition. Consider conducting a trial migration or setting up a test environment to identify any potential issues or compatibility problems. Prepare a checklist of tasks, including DNS configuration, SSL certificate setup, and data migration. Step 6: Start Migration Once you have made your migration plan and selected a managed cloud service provider, it’s time to start migrating your applications and data. This process usually involves moving your applications to the cloud based on the chosen migration strategy. This may involve rehosting, refactoring, re-platforming, or rebuilding the applications. Additionally, you will configure them to run properly in the cloud environment. Moreover, transfer your data to the cloud, ensuring that all necessary data is securely moved and formatted correctly for the new environment. Connect your migrated applications and data with other cloud-based services and systems to ensure they work smoothly together. At last, conduct thorough testing of your migrated applications and data to verify that they are functioning correctly and meeting the expected performance standards. Step 7: Track Your Website Migration The final step is to monitor the success of your migration and make improvements if necessary. Keep an eye on the metrics you set at the beginning of the process and compare them to the benchmarks you established beforehand. Are they meeting your expectations? If they are, that’s great. However, if they are not, you will need to investigate what went wrong. It is normal to observe changes, including a possible decrease, in website traffic and rankings after a migration but if you experience a significant and sustained drop, it could indicate larger problems, mostly due to improper redirection practices. The Bottom Line Transferring your infrastructure and work to the cloud requires careful planning and consideration. There is no quick and easy way to migrate everything, and the time it takes depends on various factors. To successfully migrate your website to the cloud, you must follow the steps we have provided. By following them, you can successfully transition your website to the cloud and ensure its optimal performance and availability. It is important to monitor the metrics and make improvements if necessary to maintain a seamless user experience. Native app development is gaining popularity among developers nowadays. Mobile phones have become an essential aspect of our daily lives. As people use their mobile phones to access various applications and websites, they contribute to almost half of the internet traffic. This trend has led to the mobile app development industry becoming highly profitable worldwide. As a result, new developers entering the market are enthusiastic about learning and adapting swiftly. Developing native mobile apps can be advantageous for developers who aim to build strong and user-friendly mobile applications. To begin, let’s dive into the guide to native app development including its concept, advantages, and examples. What is Native Mobile App Development? Native app development refers to the creation of mobile applications that are designed specifically for a particular operating system, like iOS or Android. These apps are built using programming languages and tools that are unique to each platform. Unlike websites and web applications that run in web browsers, native mobile apps are downloaded from platform-specific app stores. For example, you can find iOS and iPadOS apps in Apple’s App Store and Android apps in the Google Play Store. Developing native apps involves using different skills and technologies compared to creating mobile websites. With native app development, you don’t need to concern yourself with browser behavior and compatibility issues. Instead, you can take advantage of the specific features provided by the mobile operating systems to deliver a tailored user experience and implement the desired functionalities of your app. Since native apps are built for a specific platform, developers need to use different programming languages and tools depending on whether they are creating an iOS or Android app. For iOS, developers typically use languages like Swift or Objective-C, while Android apps are often built using Java or Kotlin. When we say “native languages,” we mean that Swift, Objective C, Kotlin, and Java are specifically designed for their respective platforms. However, there are alternatives to native app development, such as cross-platform or hybrid app development. Nevertheless, many software developers argue that native app development is the best approach because it offers inherent advantages over hybrid apps. Because of this, tech companies may invest extra time and resources to create separate native apps for each mobile platform, including Android, iPhone, and, in the past, even Windows. What are the Advantages of Native App Development? 1. Cybersecurity Security is another important aspect where native apps are often considered more secure. Hybrid apps rely on web technologies to achieve multi-platform compatibility, which can introduce potential vulnerabilities. On the other hand, native apps have security protocols that operate at all levels of the operating system. Cybersecurity is a major concern in the software development industry and for valid reasons. Data breaches can have severe consequences, including damage to your brand, and reputation, and the loss of valuable data. 2. High-Quality Performance Native mobile apps interact directly with the native APIs of the operating system without relying on additional software like plugins or WebViews. Because of this, native apps have fewer dependencies, making them faster and more responsive compared to hybrid apps. This is particularly crucial for apps that require high performance, such as games and applications with a lot of graphics. 3. User Experience Native apps provide a seamless and tailored user experience as they can leverage the platform’s specific design guidelines, features, and interactions. This helps in creating intuitive and user-friendly interfaces that users are already familiar with, leading to higher user engagement and satisfaction. 4. Offline Functionality Native apps can store data locally on the device, enabling them to work even when there is no internet connection. This is particularly useful for apps that require offline access or have data-intensive operations. Top Native Apps in 2025 1. LinkedIn LinkedIn is a social media platform specifically designed for professional networking. It allows job seekers and employers to connect with each other and gain a better understanding of their needs and goals in a professional setting. When it comes to native app development, LinkedIn initially made the error of using HTML5 for their mobile web apps instead of opting for native development, which was actually the better choice. However, LinkedIn eventually realized its mistake and decided to switch to native app development. 2. Spotify Spotify is a famous streaming software that allows its users to listen to music wherever they are, whether they’re on the move or at home. The best part is that users don’t need to download songs or playlists onto their phones to enjoy the music. What sets Spotify apart is how it utilizes cloud technology. This enables the app to perform exceptionally well, surpassing the expectations you might have for a combination of different app types. 3. WhatsApp WhatsApp is a popular messaging service that was initially a native app for iOS and Android phones. It is widely used in many parts of the world. In fact, in the third quarter of 2020, it was the fourth most downloaded app globally, with more than 140 million downloads. Because of this, it can be considered a practical solution for corporate communication tools in the workplace. The Bottom Line Whether you’re building a native iOS app or a native Android app, understanding the foundations and following the best practices of native mobile app development is essential to ensure success. Remember, native app development is a journey of continuous learning and improvement. Embrace the challenges, explore new possibilities, and strive to deliver exceptional native apps that delight users and make a lasting impact in the mobile world of 2025 and beyond. The main goal of any business is to attract as many clients and customers as they can. Marketing plays a crucial role in bringing in these people and generating potential customers. In the coming year, businesses will still use traditional methods of advertising like billboards, television, or YouTube ads. However, many smart businesses will primarily focus on digital marketing in 2023, meaning they will heavily rely on online strategies to reach their target audience. No matter what kind of business you have, if you don’t have a well-thought-out digital marketing strategy that matches your business plan, you will face several issues discussed in this blog. As a result, you may lose to competitors who have a better understanding of digital marketing techniques. So, why do you have digital marketing needs in 2023 for online businesses? 1. Stay Ahead of the Competition The field of digital marketing keeps evolving every now and then, so it is essential to stay ahead of the competition. In 2023, digital marketing is no longer an option but a necessity to stay relevant and competitive. By continuously monitoring industry trends, analyzing data, and adapting your digital marketing strategies, you can outperform your competitors. It allows you to identify emerging platforms and technologies and leverage them to gain a competitive edge. 2. It’s a Key to Success If your company doesn’t have a digital media marketing strategy in 2023, it means you’re missing out on business opportunities and lacking a clear direction. Without a direction, your business isn’t preparing for success, and you shouldn’t expect positive outcomes. The importance of digital marketing strategy is like having a roadmap or plan for your business. It allows you to understand what you want to achieve, set specific goals, and monitor your progress using analytics. With a digital strategy in place, you can provide effective solutions to help your business navigate challenging situations and maintain organized operations. 3. Access to Greater Audience Traditional marketing methods have a smaller audience compared to digital marketing. If you want to reach a larger audience through traditional methods, you need to spend a lot on advertising through TV channels and printed media. On the other hand, the reason why you need digital marketing is that it offers effective techniques and tools to reach your target audience. Since almost everyone has internet access these days, it’s easier to reach customers from different backgrounds using social media and digital tools in 2023. 4. Engage and Build Relationships Digital marketing allows you to engage with your audience and build lasting relationships. Social media platforms provide an opportunity to interact with your customers directly, address their queries, and resolve their concerns. By consistently providing valuable content and engaging with your audience, you can build trust and loyalty, turning customers into brand advocates. This level of engagement is not possible with traditional marketing methods and highlights the importance of having a digital marketing strategy in place. 5. It is Cost-Effective Businesses need digital marketing in 2023 because it is more affordable compared to many other marketing methods. The pandemic has affected the finances of all businesses, and no company has come out unharmed. Therefore, finding cost-effective methods is a major priority for businesses in 2023. Digital marketing is beneficial because it generates a high return on investment (ROI) and allows for a wider audience reach. Moreover, with a modest budget, companies can assess the effectiveness of their sales strategies using digital marketing metrics. They can make adjustments to their marketing strategies and campaigns without a significant impact on their budget. 6. You Can Track Your Results By implementing a well-thought-out digital marketing strategy, you gain the advantage of understanding which online promotional tactics are effective for your business and which ones are not. This valuable information allows you to assess your return on investment (ROI) and identify areas for improvement in your current digital campaign. Moreover, you can use this data to enhance your future online marketing initiatives based on the insights gained. Various digital marketing analytics tools, such as Google Analytics, are readily available in the market. These tools provide digital marketers and business owners like yourself with a wealth of valuable information about your campaign. You can easily evaluate and test different ad content to determine if it resonates with your target audience. Also, you can track metrics such as the number of visitors, page views, average user time spent on your site, conversion rate, and bounce rate. All of this data greatly contributes to optimizing your marketing campaign in 2023. The Bottom Line This indicates that most companies nowadays including your competitors are utilizing various digital marketing strategies to connect with their target customers on the Internet. Therefore, it is integral for your business to keep up with your competitors in order to thrive in the continuously expanding online marketing arena. By partnering with a reliable digital marketing agency, you can navigate complex digital marketing strategies for online businesses and drive growth and achieve long-term success in the online marketplace. We live in a highly competitive world and all businesses are making changes to adapt to the digital age. They are striving to upgrade their current IT systems and methods and embracing new technologies and software development approaches to stay ahead of their competitors. To succeed in this digital transformation, companies must implement the best practices of DevOps, which refers to the integration of development and operations teams. By adopting DevOps, businesses can release higher-quality products and services with fewer performance issues. Since each company is unique, the process of transformation should be carefully tailored to the organization’s culture and foundation. This requires thorough research to understand the company’s cultural values and principles on which it is built. What is the Role of DevOps Consulting Services? Before discussing strategies and best practices, it is important to understand the role of DevOps consulting services. So, what is it? DevOps consulting services are provided by experts who have deep knowledge and experience in implementing DevOps practices across various industries. They work closely with businesses to assess their existing software development and deployment processes, identify bottlenecks, and devise tailored strategies to drive organizational transformation. DevOps consultants play a pivotal role in guiding businesses toward successful DevOps adoption and ensuring a smooth transition. So, what are the key practices that can allow you to take your business up a notch? Here we will elaborate on some of them for you. 1. A Strong Team Before introducing a new technology or process, it is crucial to evaluate the resources available. One of the most important qualities a resource should possess is a willingness to improve their knowledge. Regardless of the company’s model, team members must be motivated to learn new skills. They should be familiar with the latest DevOps tools and be ready to switch to new ones if necessary. When facing complex situations, your DevOps teams should also be able to think creatively and have the patience to solve problems by troubleshooting and debugging until they find the underlying issue. 2. DevOps Transformation Roadmap Once the current state assessment is complete and goals are defined, a DevOps transformation roadmap is created. This roadmap outlines the sequence of activities, milestones, and deliverables required to achieve the desired outcomes. It includes a comprehensive plan for process changes, tooling recommendations, skills development, and cultural transformation. The DevOps consultant collaborates with key stakeholders to ensure alignment and gain buy-in for the roadmap. Clear communication and transparency are essential throughout this process to manage expectations and ensure successful implementation. 3. Agile Project Management Model The best DevOps consulting services help you leverage the Agile project management model which makes a great combination with DevOps methodology. They share similar values such as flexibility, teamwork, transparent communication, and adaptability to changes. When managing your project using Agile, it’s important to anticipate future steps. If you’re starting your development journey, it’s advisable to hire a dedicated team that already has experience working with this methodology. 4. Serverless Infrastructure DevOps consulting services allow you to make the most of serverless infrastructure. This type of architecture allows developers and operations teams to focus on creating and launching applications, rather than spending time managing the infrastructure. Serverless providers handle many operational and management tasks, freeing up valuable resources. There are different tools available, such as Google Cloud, AWS Lambda, Azure functions, and more, that enterprises can utilize to effectively run their application code on serverless infrastructures. These tools cater to the specific requirements of various DevOps organizations. 5. Measure of Performance Data plays an integral part in DevOps, making it a successful practice for the best DevOps consultation services. Automation tools, including those for tracking DevOps performance, simplify the process of gathering and analyzing data. There are four important key performance indicators (KPIs) that need to be tracked: deployment frequency, lead time for changes (from code commit to code deploy), mean time to restore (MTTR) and change failure rate. The Bottom Line DevOps consulting service should have a collaborative and client-centric approach, working closely with your teams to understand your specific challenges, objectives, and constraints. They should be able to provide tailored strategies and solutions that align with your business goals. DevOps consulting services offer businesses the opportunity to transform their software development and operations processes, leading to improved efficiency, faster time to market, and enhanced software quality. If you are still doubtful about the DevOps consulting services, this is the sign to hire a consultant for your business. Increasing the number of site visitors without paid ads is a key goal for successful online businesses. This is why brands all over the world aim to be ranked at the top when people search for specific things on search engines. However, achieving this is more challenging than it may seem. SEO optimization best practices are crucial in this regard as they allow you to improve your website’s ranking on search engine result pages and attract more visitors. SEO is a constantly changing field in digital marketing because Google frequently updates its algorithm to improve users’ search experience. This means that every year, marketers can review the latest SEO trends that are influencing how search engines work. With that said, we recognize that SEO involves more than just improving search engine rankings—it’s also about delivering value to users. Keeping this in mind, we will share best practices for SEO in 2023 that will assist you in boosting your website’s organic traffic this year. 1. Use Long-Tail Keywords Google continues to advance with each update it releases. Now, Google recognizes that when someone searches for a dishwasher, there are related keywords that include one or more additional words connected to the search. While shorter keywords are more competitive, using longer and more specific keywords, known as long-tail keywords, can help your website rank higher on Google. Targeting long-tail keywords is a strategy to update your keyword approach in 2023. It can assist you in optimizing your web pages or articles. To ensure that your content with long-tail keywords ranks well, it’s essential to create high-quality and engaging content that meets the needs of users. 2. Add Keywords in Videos This is one of the best practices of SEO in 2023 especially for YouTube channels or websites with visual content. if you are a vlogger, trying to make the most of SEO services, the tip is to strategically add keywords in video titles, file names, video scripts, tags, descriptions, and more. You must also use long-tail keywords and their synonyms. Just like any SEO plan, it is important not to excessively use keywords. When it comes to YouTube SEO, the goal is to make your content more discoverable for viewers and easier for YouTube’s algorithm to comprehend. If you go overboard with your keywords, it can confuse your audience or even lead to penalties from YouTube and Google. 3. Focus on User Experience In 2023, search engines are more focused than ever on providing a positive user experience. Therefore, one of the most important SEO practices is to optimize your website with the user in mind. Ensure that your site loads quickly is mobile-friendly, and is easy to navigate. Intuitive website architecture, clear headings, and engaging content are crucial for keeping visitors on your site and encouraging them to explore further. 4. Link Pages Linking different pages within your website can positively impact your search engine rankings. It helps search engines understand the structure of your website and how you provide access to information for your visitors. Internal linking not only improves your search rankings but also allows you to direct traffic from popular pages to less-visited ones. However, it’s crucial to avoid linking errors, as they can severely harm your SEO efforts. 5. Image Optimization Don’t overlook the significance of optimizing your website’s images. When done effectively, image optimization can unlock the potential of image searches and bring in more visitors. To make the most of this opportunity, it’s essential to follow these best practices: Assign relevant titles to your images and incorporate targeted keywords. Describe your images using alt text. Avoid using images that are cluttered or overly busy. Opt for high-resolution images, while being mindful of their file size. By optimizing your images, you not only enhance the visual appeal of your content but also increase your chances of attracting organic traffic. 6. Optimization of Meta Titles and Descriptions It is important to clearly communicate the purpose of your web page, and meta titles and meta descriptions are the tags used for this purpose. They allow you to explain the contents of your web page to both your visitors and search engine bots. These tags help people understand the nature of your content directly and indirectly learn about your business. This technique is the best on-page SEO practice and is used in engaging titles and informative descriptions. The titles of your content should be concise, captivating, and easy to understand. Keep in mind that you are competing with other search results for the same query. By implementing this simple technique, you can greatly improve your website’s traffic and attract more clicks from users. 7. Off-Page SEO Best Practices Off-page SEO focuses on building your website’s authority and reputation through external factors. In 2023, off-page SEO practices are still essential for achieving high rankings. Earn backlinks from reputable websites through guest blogging, influencer partnerships, and creating shareable content. Engage with your audience on social media platforms and encourage them to share your content. Building a strong online presence through off-page tactics can enhance your website’s visibility and drive more organic traffic. 8. Create Quality Content Creating relevant and high-quality content is an old SEO practice that stands equally important in 2023 and beyond. The main goal of search engines is to satisfy users’ search needs. To improve your website’s ranking in search results, optimize keywords, content, images, and backlinks based on user intent. Your website should be informative, visually appealing, business-oriented, and user-friendly. Producing high-quality content has several benefits, such as attracting more traffic, increasing the number of visitors, and potentially boosting conversion rates. It involves writing captivating content that captures the attention of your audience. Make sure your content is easily readable and enjoyable for readers. To achieve this, write with enthusiasm while keeping your goals and search intent in mind. While these efforts may not yield immediate results, they will have positive effects over time and contribute to improving SEO. The Bottom Line SEO practices continue to evolve to keep up with changes in search engine algorithms and user behavior. Keeping up with the best SEO practices is vital to stay competitive in the online marketplace. By applying these techniques, you have the opportunity to enhance the discoverability and importance of your website in search engine results pages. This can result in increased website traffic, ultimately enabling you to reach your business objectives successfully. To attract new customers and keep the loyalty of current ones, business owners need to recognize the importance of having an online presence. It doesn’t matter what industry you’re in – taking your company online has significant advantages. Nowadays, when people search for your business online, they expect to find you, so it’s crucial to include this in your website development and marketing strategy. To ensure that your web pages rank well in search engine results, there are certain technical SEO issues that you need to address. These issues not only impact your website’s ranking but can also result in losing customers and hinder business growth. To prevent this, business owners should have a basic understanding of SEO and be able to identify common SEO mistakes that can occur on their websites. So, what are some common SEO mistakes and how can you avoid them? Let’s discuss this. 1. Not Understanding Your Audience Issue: Knowing your audience very well is imperative. Although many marketers believe they know their audience, they often make the mistake of not fully understanding how consumers behave in their specific market and on a detailed level. Solution: Take the time to understand the market where your customers make their purchases. Look at the bigger trends that affect the industry. Make the most of tools like Google keyword planning and any other tools provided by vendors that can help you in this process. 2. Lacking Relevant Keywords Issue: One of the most common SEO issues is the absence of relevant keywords on a website. Without targeted keywords, search engines may not understand the website’s content and fail to rank it appropriately. Solution: Conduct thorough keyword research to identify relevant keywords related to your website’s niche. Incorporate these keywords naturally in your website’s content, including titles, headings, meta tags, and body text. Use tools like Google Keyword Planner or SEMrush for effective keyword research. 3. Broken Links Issue: Having good internal and external links is important because it signals to both users and search engines that your content is of high quality. When there are broken links, it disrupts the user’s experience and indicates lower-quality content. This can have an impact on the ranking of your page. Solution: Whenever a page is removed, or changed, or a redirect is set up, it’s important to check the internal links to ensure they still work. As for external links, they need to be monitored regularly. The most efficient method to deal with broken links is by conducting routine site audits. 4. Slow Site Speed Issue: If your website takes too long to load, usually around 3 seconds or less, your users will leave and find another site. The speed at which your pages load is important for both the user’s experience and Google’s algorithm. Solution: To identify speed issues on your website, you can rely on Google Page Speed Insights. It’s important to check both the desktop and mobile performance of your site. This tool will help you identify specific areas where your website might be loading slowly. 5. Ignoring Analytics Issue: Not keeping track of and analyzing your website’s performance can hinder your ability to identify SEO problems and make informed choices. Solution: Utilize web analytics tools such as Google Analytics to monitor website traffic, user behavior, and keyword performance. Regularly review data and make necessary adjustments to improve SEO strategies. 6. Content Before SEO Issue: There is a common belief that SEO comes after creating content. However, the truth is the opposite. Solution: SEO research should be done at the beginning of the content creation process. Start by conducting keyword research to understand what your audience needs and wants. Analyze search results to see who is successful and why which will allow you to create the best and most competitive content. 7. Insufficient Backlinks Issue: A lack of quality backlinks limits a website’s authority and hinders organic rankings. Solution: Develop a link-building strategy to acquire high-quality backlinks. Focus on guest blogging, outreach to relevant websites, and engaging in industry-specific communities to gain valuable backlinks. 8. Poor Website Structure Issue: A poorly structured website can confuse search engines and users alike, resulting in decreased visibility and engagement. Complex navigation, broken links, or inconsistent URL structures can negatively impact your website’s SEO. Solution: Create a clear and intuitive website structure. Use logical navigation menus and internal linking to make it easier for search engines and users to navigate your site. Fix every broken link. 9. Poor On-Page Optimization Issue: Neglecting on-page optimization elements such as meta tags, headings, alt tags, and URL structure can harm a website’s visibility. Solution: Optimize each web page by including relevant meta titles, meta descriptions, and heading tags. Use descriptive alt tags for images and ensure user-friendly URLs that include target keywords. 10. Poor User Experience Issue: Websites with poor user experiences, such as confusing navigation or intrusive ads, tend to have higher bounce rates and lower rankings. Solution: Enhance the user experience by improving website navigation, simplifying the content layout, reducing page loading times, and avoiding intrusive or irrelevant advertisements. The Bottom Line Your business’s success online depends on how well you rank in search results. It is important to understand this and be prepared to tackle any ranking issues that may arise on your website. If you ignore these issues, they can harm your web traffic and result in lost profits. To prevent this, it is crucial to be proactive and invest in effective SEO strategies for your online business. By doing so, you will increase your visibility and give your business the best chance to thrive. So, hand your website to the specialists at Arpatech, and let’s optimize your business site! PPC is a method used by businesses to attract visitors and increase sales through search engines. If you’re new to the business world or want to expand your brand online, you might be searching for ways to generate traffic and boost sales. PPC (Pay-Per-Click) can be an effective marketing strategy to promote your business and reach potential customers, but it might seem complicated at first for beginners in this field. Let’s start with the basics of the PPC guide. What Is PPC? PPC, which stands for Pay-Per-Click, is an online advertising model where advertisers pay a fee each time one of their ads is clicked. It is a method of driving traffic to websites or landing pages by placing ads on various online platforms such as search engines, social media sites, or websites. The advertiser only pays when a user clicks on their ad, hence the name “pay-per-click.” PPC ads are typically displayed alongside search results or on relevant websites and social media platforms. They are designed to be eye-catching and compelling, encouraging users to click on them and visit the advertiser’s website. These ads can be text-based, image-based, or a combination of both. It is a type of online advertising where the advertiser is charged a fee whenever someone clicks on their ads. In simple terms, you’re paying for each visitor who is specifically interested in your website, landing page, or app. When PPC is effective, the fee you pay for a click is minimal compared to the value you gain from that click. Why Is PPC Important? PPC is important for several reasons such as: 1. Targeted Advertising One of the advantages of PPC is that it allows businesses to target their ads to specific audiences based on factors like location, demographics, interests, and search intent. This targeting ensures that your ads are shown to people who are more likely to be interested in your products or services, increasing the chances of conversions. 2. Immediate Results Unlike organic search engine optimization (SEO) which takes time to generate results, PPC can drive immediate traffic to your website or landing page. Once your PPC campaign is set up and approved, your ads can start appearing in search engine results, reaching potential customers right away. 3. Social Media Strategy If you want to attract and convert more customers, you can use a combined PPC campaign that includes both web search results and social media. When you run a campaign that integrates search and social PPC efforts, you can reduce the cost of acquiring new customers while increasing the number of conversions compared to running separate PPC campaigns. This is because you gain access to valuable customer data from multiple channels. By combining this cross-channel customer data, you can enhance and optimize your campaigns even more effectively. 4. Budget Control Pay-per-click advertising is focused on your budget, which gives you a high level of control compared to other paid advertising methods. One of the main advantages of PPC is that businesses have precise control over how they spend their budget. Moreover, in popular PPC formats like search engine ads, you only pay when someone clicks on your ad. Therefore, there are no upfront fees, and you can set your own ad budget without any minimum requirement. Businesses have the flexibility to decide how much or how little money they want to spend on PPC advertising which is one of the advantages of PPC. 5. Allows Retargeting Retargeting is a way to remember people who have visited your website and show them your ads based on their past visits. By combining PPC with analytics, you can gain a better understanding of the data from visitors who didn’t make a purchase or take any desired action. With this information, you can target those visitors again with your ads, hoping to convince them to come back and convert. What Is a Pay-Per-Click Campaign? In a PPC campaign, advertisers bid on specific keywords or target certain demographics to display their ads in search engine results or on relevant websites. When a user clicks on the ad, the advertiser is charged a predetermined amount. The goal of a PPC campaign is to generate clicks and conversions, ultimately driving relevant traffic and potential customers to the advertiser’s website or desired destination. The Bottom Line All marketers generally agree that starting with PPC is usually easy. It is an essential tool for businesses looking to expand their online presence and reach potential customers. If you’re new to PPC, understanding the basics and implementing effective campaigns can help you achieve your marketing goals in the digital world. Apple continues to make progress on a daily basis. Over the years, their operating system, iOS, has gained popularity and is now widely used on various devices such as the iPhone, iPad, and iPod. However, with each new update, Apple introduces new features and difficulties that developers worldwide must overcome. It has always been unique compared to other platforms for creating mobile apps. They focus on building high-quality devices that cater to a specific group of people rather than trying to appeal to everyone. This approach has earned Apple a loyal user base who genuinely enjoy using iPhones. In order to meet the expectations of these users, Apple regularly introduces new iPhone models that incorporate the latest and most innovative technologies. For users, it’s exciting to have access to these advanced tools and technologies. However, for iOS app developers, it is not always a smooth journey to create apps using the continuous stream of innovative features provided by Apple. They face various challenges when it comes to adopting new trends and technologies for developing iPhone apps. Let’s discuss some of them. 1. App Store Guidelines and Approval Process Getting your iOS app approved for the App Store can be a complex and time-consuming process during iOS app development. Apple has strict guidelines regarding app content, design, functionality, and privacy. Violating these guidelines can result in app rejection or removal from the App Store. To avoid rejection, thoroughly review and adhere to the App Store Review Guidelines provided by Apple. Pay close attention to the design guidelines, data privacy requirements, and any specific guidelines related to the app’s category. Test your app rigorously to ensure it meets all the guidelines before submitting it for review. 2. App Compatibility in Different Versions Apple introduces a new version of its operating system, iOS, every year. Each new version brings various technical improvements, so iPhone app developers need to update their apps to meet the higher standards of the latest version. By adopting the newer iOS version, developers can attract more users to their apps. Ensuring that the app runs smoothly on different Apple devices, such as iPhones, iPads, and iPods, is crucial. Developers must test the compatibility of their apps on a range of iOS devices, identify any issues, and address them promptly. This ensures that the app functions well across various Apple devices. 3. Quality User Interface People have widely embraced iOS devices because they offer a great user experience (UX) and a sleek design concept. In order to create captivating experiences, it is crucial for developers to prioritize a good and efficient user interface (UI) design. Apps have undergone significant advancements over time, including their design and navigation. As a result, when creating an app for iPhone, iOS developers are tasked with creating appealing user interfaces that work well on various screen sizes. 4. App’s Battery Life Even if an app is excellent in other aspects, users will uninstall it if it consumes a lot of battery power. iOS developers have the responsibility to ensure that their app doesn’t drain the device’s battery excessively and runs smoothly in the background by avoiding unnecessary processes. They need to optimize the app and avoid incorporating too many power-intensive features to reduce battery consumption. However, accomplishing this is not as simple as it may sound. Even large organizations face challenges in ensuring that their apps are battery-friendly. 5. Memory Issues iOS devices do not have a built-in function for garbage collection. If an application consumes too much power, it can be terminated by the system. Therefore, it is a difficult task for iOS developers to handle memory efficiently within the app. When developing an app for a specific version of iOS, it’s important to consider that the same version runs on various iPhone devices, each with different storage capacities and memory. Some applications and games require a significant amount of space. As a result, users may be unable to use those applications or games even if their smartphone is technically compatible with them. 6. Security Concerns With the power of technology, we are experiencing a rise in the use of advanced technologies like Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning. However, with these advancements, the challenge of cybersecurity becomes more prominent as hackers become smarter with each passing day. When it comes to creating an iOS app, it is crucial to implement strong encryption measures to safeguard the app’s data from hackers and vulnerabilities. Only with a robust and advanced security layer can developers prevent data breaches and ensure the overall security of the application. The Bottom Line Developing an iOS app may have its challenges, but with proper planning and implementation, these obstacles can be overcome. By staying updated with the latest iOS versions, testing your app on different devices, and adhering to App Store guidelines, you can ensure compatibility and a smooth approval process. Remember, with determination and attention to detail, you can successfully navigate the journey of iOS app development and create an app that users will love on their iPhones, iPads, and iPod touch. For social media campaigns to be successful, it is important to plan thoroughly ahead. Instead of diving right in without a plan, the first thing you should do is create a social media marketing strategy in 2023. A social media marketing strategy is a document that outlines your goals, the actions you’ll take to achieve them, and how you will measure your progress. It serves as a guide to help you stay focused and on the right path. Numerous businesses randomly approach social media marketing. They acknowledge the importance of having marketing plans for social media but lack a clear understanding of what they should do. Certain companies assign the responsibility of managing their social accounts to young staff members, assuming that their youth automatically makes them knowledgeable about social media. However, in 2023, we have moved beyond the era of simply posting content and hoping for the best. All businesses need to build a social media marketing strategy in 2023 and handle their social accounts with careful consideration and a systematic approach. 1. Define Your Goals and Target Audience The first step in building a successful social media marketing strategy is to define your goals. Are you looking to increase brand awareness, drive website traffic, generate leads, or boost sales? Identifying your objectives will help you tailor your strategy accordingly. Moreover, it is essential to clearly define your target audience. Understand their demographics, interests, and online behavior. This knowledge will enable you to create relevant and engaging content that resonates with your audience in 2023. 2. Develop a Business Blog In 2023, you must start creating fresh and engaging content which is the core of a successful social media marketing strategy. Commit to consistently producing new and relevant content to keep your target audience interested and involved. One effective method to keep your content fresh is by making a list of commonly asked questions and then creating blog posts that address those questions. This way, you can aim to publish at least one new blog post every week. By integrating your blogging and social media strategies, you can reach a wider audience with your content. For instance, you can share a social media post with a helpful tip for your followers and include a link to your corresponding blog post that provides more detailed information on that tip. This approach can help increase traffic to your blog and boost engagement from your followers. 3. Choosing Right Social Media Networks Many people are concerned about finding the time and energy to manage accounts on all social networks. But in reality, you don’t need to be on every single one. The key is to identify the right social networks for your business, the ones where your target audience spends their time. To find these networks, you might need to do some research. This shouldn’t be too hard, especially if you know your customers well. If you’re unsure, you can survey them and ask which social accounts they prefer. You can start by focusing on your audience’s most preferred network and then expand to include others where a significant number of people actively use social media. Generally, you won’t need to be on more than three to five social networks. In 2023, Facebook and Instagram remain dominant players in the social media landscape. However, depending on your industry and target audience, other platforms like Twitter, LinkedIn, or TikTok may also be worth considering. 4. Observe How Your Competitors Use Social Media It’s not about being nosy, it’s about being smart. Conducting a competitor analysis can help you learn about their strengths and weaknesses. Understanding what your competitors are doing can give you valuable insights into what customers expect from businesses in your industry in 2023. By studying your competitors’ social media strategies, you might identify areas where they are not as strong. This can create opportunities for you to fill those gaps. For instance, if your competitor has a strong presence on Twitter but lacks activity on Facebook, you can focus more of your energy on creating engaging content for Facebook instead of directly competing on Twitter. 5. Analyze And Optimize Your Strategy To ensure the success of your social media marketing strategy in 2023, it is necessary to regularly analyze and optimize your efforts. You must social media analytics tools to monitor important metrics like reach, engagement, click-through rates, and conversions. Analyze this data to understand what content performs well and what needs improvement. You can experiment with different types of content, posting times, and ad formats to identify the most effective strategies. Conduct A/B tests to compare different versions of your content and refine your approach based on the results. Moreover, social media trends are constantly evolving. Stay up-to-date with the latest features, algorithms, and best practices on platforms like Facebook and Instagram. The Bottom Line To establish a strong online presence and effectively connect with your audience, businesses need to have a well-planned social media strategy. By focusing on creating valuable content, engaging naturally with your followers, backing up your data, implementing long-term growth strategies, and staying updated with the latest trends, you can develop a successful social media strategy in 2023 and beyond. Remember to regularly review your strategy, adapt to changes in the social media world, and measure your performance to continually improve. Crafting a successful social media strategy may not be easy, but by considering the points mentioned in this blog and utilizing appropriate social media tools, you can create a strategy that aligns with your goals and helps you succeed. Whether you are planning to launch a brand-new digital marketing agency or looking to boost your current one, white label SEO services in the UK or any other part of the world can be a game changer. Many digital agency owners have significantly grown their profits by adding new services to their existing lineup, even if they are not experts in those services. Outsourcing services to third-party companies is nothing new and has been recommended by many successful business owners. Given the abundance of resources available today, it is a smart option to consider for your business. What is White Label Local SEO? White label SEO is when one company offers SEO services to its clients using its own name, but another company or individual actually does the work behind the scenes. The term “white label” means that the service is offered without any branding from the provider. Instead, the SEO agency’s services are rebranded or presented under the client’s brand name. It is a budget-friendly way for the first company to meet the needs of its clients, offer more services, or cover any areas where they may lack expertise. White label local SEO services are a great way for businesses to improve their online presence, attract local customers, and stay ahead of their competition. So, here we will discuss the significance of white label local SEO services and they help businesses grow. 1. Target Local Businesses Focus on targeting local businesses in the UK as they will likely prefer working with an SEO company that understands their market and audience. Emphasize the benefits of local SEO, such as improving local search rankings, increasing foot traffic, and attracting more customers from the surrounding area. By highlighting these advantages, you can appeal to local businesses looking for SEO services in their region. 2. Network and Collaborate Networking is crucial in the SEO industry. Attend conferences, webinars, and local business events to meet potential clients and industry experts. Collaborate with other businesses, such as a PPC management company in the UK, to offer complementary services. Partnering with related businesses can help you reach new audiences and create mutually beneficial opportunities for growth. 3. Helps Focus on Abilities White-label services can save you time and let you focus on what you do best, while still benefiting from the strengths of White label SEO services offered by your agency. This results in high-quality work, a satisfied workforce, happy clients, and more repeat business. 4. Competitive Edge It is a competitive world and hence it is important to be unique and stand out. White label local SEO services in the UK and the rest of the world can give businesses an edge by improving their online presence and making sure they show up prominently in local search results. This advantage is especially helpful for small and medium-sized businesses that are competing with bigger companies in their local area. 5. Power of Content Marketing Content marketing is an effective tool for attracting and engaging potential clients. Create informative blog posts, videos, and social media content that demonstrate your expertise in the field of SEO. Share valuable tips and insights on how businesses can improve their online presence. By showcasing your knowledge, you will position yourself as a trustworthy authority, which can lead to more business opportunities. 6. Customer Feedback Local SEO strategies often involve handling and encouraging customer reviews. Good reviews not only build a business’s reputation but also have a big impact on local search rankings. White label local SEO services can help businesses keep track of and respond to reviews, which boosts their online credibility and attracts more customers. 7. Long-Term Strategy White label local SEO is not a continuous process. By continuously optimizing and updating local SEO strategies, businesses can maintain and improve their online presence in the long term. This sustained effort helps businesses stay relevant and continue to attract new customers over time. 8. Analytics and Insights White label local SEO services often provide businesses with valuable analytics and insights into their online performance. This data can help businesses understand their customers better, identify trends, and refine their marketing strategies for further growth. The Bottom Line Monetizing your white label local SEO business requires a well-rounded approach that encompasses various strategies and by incorporating these strategies, you can position your business for success in the thriving market for SEO services in the UK. As businesses continue to recognize the importance of online visibility, following these strategies will help you seize the opportunities and achieve sustainable growth for your white label local SEO business. Moreover, Arpatech Pvt Ltd is a well-known IT consultation company that offers a wide variety of digital marketing services that certainly gives commendable results. The mobile app market is becoming more competitive. Developers are finding different methods to improve the user experience by using artificial intelligence and wide variety of data science solutions. AI has brought about rapid changes and advancements in various aspects. Artificial intelligence is fundamental to the progress and transformation of technology. It plays a crucial role in enhancing the customer experience in app development. The introduction of AI has had a significant impact on the field of computer science, particularly in mobile apps. AI-based features in mobile apps make user interactions more interesting and provide valuable insights about customers. Let us discuss the positive impacts of using AI in mobile app development. 1. User Experience Artificial intelligence enhances user interactions in mobile apps by making them more intuitive and personalized. Through AI-powered sentiment analysis, mobile app development can understand a user’s emotions and opinions about a product, service, or information. Additionally, incorporating AI-infused technologies like Natural Language Processing (NLP), image recognition, and intelligent character recognition can help businesses gain customer loyalty. These technologies automate manual tasks, making processes more efficient. For instance, AI-powered Optical Character Recognition (OCR) improves banking apps by simplifying transactions and increasing efficiency. 2. Image and Object Recognition AI-powered image and object recognition technologies open up new possibilities for mobile apps. They can analyze images captured by the device’s camera, enabling augmented reality experiences, visual search capabilities, and improved security features. This enhances user engagement and enables innovative functionalities. 3. Easy Voice Search These days, users want information quickly and easily. That’s why voice search is becoming more popular. Virtual assistants like Siri and Cortana are great additions to regular internet searches. Now, voice search is not just about recognizing words but understanding what people mean. Companies are getting closer to creating voice assistants that help with daily tasks. It is becoming necessary to optimize websites for voice search. Soon, it will be a crucial part of how users find information and how websites are ranked in search engines. 4. Enhancement in Routine Tasks Artificial Intelligence technology brings great benefits to mobile applications by providing advanced features that reduce the risks and tasks associated with using apps. It also enhances the learning experience for developers, resulting in a more enjoyable user experience. For instance, if you have a travel app, AI can help users explore various places and tourist destinations. It can also assist in smartly discovering medical tourism options. 5. Predictive Analytics for Business Insights AI-driven predictive analytics empowers businesses to make data-informed decisions. Mobile apps can leverage AI algorithms to analyze vast amounts of data in real time, identify trends, and extract actionable insights. This helps businesses optimize operations, improve marketing strategies, and deliver targeted offerings. 6. AI Chatbots Chatbots use artificial intelligence technology to make communication between mobile apps and users more efficient. These chatbots are becoming increasingly sophisticated and can understand and analyze emotions. As a result, more people are interacting with mobile apps and websites through chatbots. With the help of AI, chatbots can engage with users in a human-like manner and learn from past interactions. This makes the experience of interacting with chatbots similar to talking to a real consultant in a store. These automated AI-powered chatbot assistants offer personalized experiences by improving communication with users. 7. AI-Based Language Translators You can incorporate AI technology into your mobile apps to include AI-powered translators. While there are many translation apps available, most of them require an internet connection to work. However, AI-enabled translators have an advantage in that they can perform translations almost instantly in real-time, even without an internet connection. With the help of artificial intelligence and machine learning, these apps can learn and understand different dialects of the same language for accurate translations. Additionally, AI allows the translation to be adjusted based on the time delay between a spoken word and its translation, giving users more control over the timing. Baidu, a Chinese search engine, provides an example of this capability. 8. Recognition of Human Emotions Incorporating artificial intelligence into mobile app development brings an exciting benefit: the app can recognize and respond to human emotions. This is made possible through advanced image processing, interpreting audio data, and analyzing voice intonation. By detecting subtle cues in speech and facial expressions, the app can understand the user’s emotions and provide recommendations like songs or movies that match their current mood. The Bottom Line Incorporating Artificial Intelligence in the development of mobile apps has become a popular choice for businesses. It enables the creation of customized mobile apps that provide a personalized experience to users, helping them stay connected to your services or products. As a business owner, AI can also help you understand how your users shop by analyzing their past behavior. With this information, you can customize your app to meet their expectations and needs. This enhances user engagement and loyalty, giving you a chance to stand out from competitors and grow your business. It is a modern world that has different standards for business’s success. It is essential for businesses to remain competitive and achieve success. One effective method to do this is by using pay-per-click management. This form of marketing is a potent tool that allows businesses to swiftly and effectively connect with their target audience. Read more to discover more about PPC campaign management services and how it can boost your business’s chances of success. What is PPC Advertising? PPC advertising is a digital marketing model where advertisers pay a fee each time their ad is clicked by a user. It is a way of buying visits to your website rather than earning them organically. The most common platform for PPC advertising is search engines like Google, where businesses bid on keywords relevant to their products or services. When users search for those keywords, the ads appear at the top or bottom of the search results page. What are Objectives of PPC Marketing? Increase Website Traffic The main goal of PPC is to attract more visitors to a website. By placing ads strategically on search engines and other platforms, businesses can drive targeted traffic to their sites. Generate Leads and Conversions PPC aims to convert website visitors into leads or customers. Whether it’s signing up for a newsletter, filling out a form, or making a purchase, PPC campaigns strive to drive meaningful actions. Reach Targeted Audience PPC allows businesses to target specific demographics, interests, and behaviors of their audience. This targeting ensures that ads are shown to the right people who are more likely to be interested in the products or services offered. Boost Brand Awareness Even if users don’t click on the ads, PPC marketing services can still contribute to brand exposure. Consistent ad appearances can increase brand recognition and familiarity among potential customers. Maximize Return on Investment (ROI) PPC campaigns are designed to be cost-effective. The objective is to ensure that the money spent on advertising generates a positive return on investment, making it a profitable marketing strategy. Companies such as Arpatech Pvt Ltd can help you achieve these goals and maximize the ROI. Measure and Analyze Results PPC provides detailed analytics and metrics, enabling businesses to track the performance of their campaigns. By analyzing the data, marketers can make data-driven decisions to optimize and improve their strategies continually. Immediate Results Unlike some other marketing strategies, PPC campaign management services can deliver almost instant results. Once the campaign is set up, ads start appearing, and businesses can see immediate traffic and potential leads. How to Boost Business Success with PPC Management Services? Landing Pages Optimization To get the most out of your PPC marketing services, it’s crucial to have well-optimized landing pages. Make sure your landing page matches the ad you’re running and has a clear “call-to-action” that tells people what to do next. Also, work on making your landing page load quickly, easy to use, and friendly for mobile users. Test different elements like headlines, images, forms, and where you put the “call-to-action” button to see which combination works best. This way, you can boost the chances of getting more conversions from your PPC ads. Define Clear Goals Before starting any PPC campaign management services, it’s essential to establish clear and measurable goals. Whether you want to increase website traffic, generate leads, boost sales, or promote brand awareness, having specific objectives will help you tailor your PPC strategies accordingly. Research Keywords Conduct thorough keyword research to identify the most relevant and high-performing keywords for your business. Use keyword tools and competitor analysis to find valuable keywords that have a good balance between search volume and competition. Use Extra Ad Features Extra ad features, called ad extensions, can boost the effectiveness of your PPC ads by giving more information and options to users. These include site links, call extensions, location extensions, and review extensions. By using these relevant ad extensions, you can increase the chances of getting clicks on your ads and engaging potential customers. Track Your Conversions To improve your PPC campaigns, it is essential to have accurate data. By implementing conversion tracking, you can measure and analyze how well your ads perform. Conversion tracking helps you keep track of important actions like form submissions, purchases, or newsletter sign-ups. Understanding which keywords, ads, and landing pages drive conversions helps you make smart decisions and use your budget wisely. The Bottom Line PPC marketing services aim to drive relevant traffic, increase conversions, and provide a measurable and adaptable approach to achieve business objectives in the online advertising space. Exploring PPC advertising might feel daunting at the beginning, but once you grasp its fundamental ideas and use the proper tools, it can become a valuable tool for your business’s prosperity. With a bit of time, patience, and determination, you can harness the potential of pay-per-click management for your own business. Arpatech Pvt Ltd is a leading IT consultation company that provides exceptional PPC marketing services and allows your business to grow and enhance conversion. For more information contact us via our website. We understand that security is the most important aspect when using cloud services, particularly in Microsoft Azure Cloud. It offers a wide range of effective security tools and capabilities, making it an excellent choice for hosting applications and services. By leveraging Azure’s robust security features, you can confidently build and deploy secure solutions. This ensures that customer data remains confidential, integral, and available at all times. Moreover, Azure’s emphasis on transparent accountability adds another layer of trustworthiness to the platform, benefiting both businesses and individuals alike. What is Microsoft Azure Cloud Platform? Microsoft Azure Cloud App Security is a comprehensive cloud access security broker (CASB) solution that offers advanced security and compliance capabilities for cloud applications. It provides businesses with the ability to gain deeper insights into their cloud usage, detect and respond to potential threats, and implement granular security controls to protect critical data and resources. Why do we need Azure Cloud Platform? Azure Cloud App Security gives you a bird’s-eye view of your cloud environment. It helps you identify all cloud applications used within your organization, providing insights into user activity, data flow, and potential risks. With Azure Cloud App Security, you can enforce compliance policies and regulatory requirements across your cloud applications. This ensures that your business adheres to industry standards and data protection laws, fostering trust among your customers and partners. As a part of Microsoft’s cloud services, Azure Cloud App Security receives continuous updates and improvements. This ensures that the security solution stays up-to-date with the latest threats and offers cutting-edge features to keep your business safe. Implementing Azure Cloud App Security is relatively straightforward, especially for organizations already using the Microsoft Azure cloud platform. The user-friendly interface and centralized management make it easy for IT teams to configure and manage security policies effectively. How Can Azure Cloud App Services Helps your Business Grow? Safeguarding Your Data with Azure Cloud App Security One of the essential features of Azure Cloud App Security is its ability to protect your data from unauthorized access. It employs advanced security measures, such as multi-factor authentication and conditional access policies, to ensure that only authorized personnel can access critical business applications and information. By implementing these security protocols, you can minimize the risk of data breaches and protect your business from potential cyber-attacks. Detecting and Responding to Threats These days, cyber threats are constantly evolving and Microsoft Azure Cloud App Security is equipped with sophisticated threat detection capabilities, which analyze user behavior, detect anomalies, and identify potential security risks. With real-time alerts, you can respond proactively to any suspicious activities, preventing security incidents before they escalate. This proactive approach helps maintain the trust of your customers and partners, enhancing your business reputation. Streamlining Collaboration with Azure Cloud App Security Collaboration is a key factor in business growth, and Azure Cloud App Security supports this aspect by enabling secure collaboration between employees, partners, and customers. With features like conditional access, you can ensure that only authorized users can access specific applications and data. Additionally, the threat detection capabilities keep your collaboration platforms secure, preventing data leaks and unauthorized access. Enhancing Remote Productivity Azure cloud app security can bring out the potential for business growth with Azure Virtual Desktop which is the solution that empowers remote work from any location. By quickly setting up Azure Virtual Desktop, you can ensure a secure and productive remote work environment for your team. With the user-friendly Windows 11 interface and scalable multi-session experience, your employees will feel at home while maximizing their efficiency. Not only this, you can save costs by utilizing your existing eligible Windows licenses. Managing your entire Azure Virtual Desktop deployment is seamless through the Azure portal, where you can also access other beneficial Azure cloud services in the US and other countries. This integration offers a holistic approach to business development and fosters a flexible, agile work environment that contributes to your company’s success. Assess Your Cloud Environment You must also assess your existing cloud environment and identify all cloud applications used within your organization. Azure Cloud App Security provides discovery tools to help you gain insights into cloud usage. By understanding the applications being used, you can create a solid foundation for implementing security measures effectively. In the End Microsoft Azure Cloud App Security is a valuable tool that can significantly contribute to the growth of your business. You must remember that Azure Cloud services in the US and the rest of the world are continually evolving to address the latest security challenges and industry requirements. Keep yourself updated with the latest advancements to maximize the benefits and protection provided by these powerful cloud solutions. Moreover, if you are looking for reliable and productive Azure cloud services, you can reach out to Arpatech Pvt Ltd. With Arpatech, you can set your business on a path to sustainable growth, fortified by the confidence of robust cloud security. As the IT industry continues to grow, DevOps services are becoming increasingly popular among businesses aiming to enhance their operations. Many companies are now turning to DevOps consulting services to implement effective changes and boost efficiency. Among the top choices is Azure DevOps, a powerful platform designed to help development and operations teams work seamlessly together. For businesses seeking a hands-off approach, managed DevOps services provide a stress-free alternative. These services handle the entire DevOps process, allowing teams to focus on their main goals while ensuring smooth collaboration across departments. Whether you’re a startup or an established enterprise, embracing DevOps can lead to remarkable improvements in productivity and efficiency. From planning and development to deployment and monitoring, DevOps consulting services simplify the software development process from start to finish. But with so many options available, how do you choose the right DevOps services for your business? Let’s explore the key factors to consider: 1. Basic Knowledge of DevOps Services It is important to make sure that the consultant understands computer architecture basics. Some consultants may create complex cloud infrastructure without a clear understanding. Have a conversation with the DevOps consultant to learn about their knowledge of servers, network technologies, and boot processes. To handle any obstacles effectively, it is essential that the consultant possesses relevant DevOps knowledge. This includes understanding the configuration and debugging of technology. The consulting company should be familiar with the underlying technologies and how they work. 2. Service Offerings Next, assess the range of services offered by the DevOps provider. A comprehensive suite of services indicates their commitment to addressing various aspects of your software development lifecycle. Look for services like DevOps consulting, automation, cloud adoption, continuous integration and delivery (CI/CD), infrastructure management, and more. A one-stop shop for these services can simplify the process and ensure seamless coordination between different stages of your DevOps journey. 3. Collaboration and Communication DevOps consulting services are all about collaboration between development and operations teams. The same principle should apply to your partnership with the DevOps service provider. Effective communication and teamwork are essential for successful DevOps implementations. Evaluate the provider’s communication channels and the level of involvement they encourage from your in-house teams. 4. Set Clear Expectations To avoid any problems later on, you must discuss and agree on your requirements and expectations with the service provider in advance. Be clear about deadlines, set key performance indicators (KPIs), and arrange feedback report schedules as soon as possible. Make sure the potential provider is actively listening and understanding what you’re saying. Your DevOps engineer should be on the same page as you and seek your feedback to ensure they understand your expectations. A good DevOps service provider will empathize with your situation and grasp the problem before delving into DevOps metrics. So, observe how seriously the potential provider takes your concerns. 5. Technology Stack Check whether the DevOps service provider is well-versed in the technologies you currently use or plan to adopt. This includes tools like Azure DevOps, Jenkins, Git, Docker, Kubernetes, etc. Familiarity with your technology stack will ensure smoother integration and faster implementation. 6. Company’s Culture and Way of Working When selecting a DevOps consulting and implementation company, it’s not just about their skills; it’s also about finding a company that fits well with our organization’s culture. We should find out how they work with clients. Are they open to collaboration and flexibility, or do they have a more rigid approach? Communication is important too. We need to choose a company whose culture and way of working match our values and goals. 7. Company’s Past Performance Before picking a DevOps consulting and implementation company, it’s important to check their track record. Look for examples of their previous work and feedback from clients to see how well they deliver results. Don’t hesitate to ask for references and talk to other organizations who have worked with them to get a better understanding of their experiences. 8. Use of Latest Technologies Many DevOps companies handle multiple clients and projects regularly. Sometimes, developers may become too accustomed to working on the same kind of project repeatedly, leading to a rush in completing tasks using familiar DevOps tools. As a result, they might overlook the advanced technologies available in the market. To avoid this, it’s important to select a dedicated development team that keeps up with the latest technology. This ensures a smoother development process and guarantees that the methods they employ are dependable and efficient. Before choosing a service provider, carefully assess their portfolios to see if their past experience aligns with your expectations. Lastly, We Can Say: DevOps services can bring efficiency to your internal teams, helping them overcome different challenges. When hiring a DevOps consultant, make sure they have the necessary experience to implement the technology according to your industry’s requirements. Avoid hiring professionals who solely focus on automating with cloud infrastructure. Instead, prioritize developing the business environment using DevOps practices with the help of DevOps experts. Staying updated on the latest social media trends can be challenging. New platforms, algorithm changes, and evolving marketing techniques make it feel like you’re always trying to catch up. However, there are some helpful tips to keep you ahead of the game and informed about emerging trends. Why is it difficult? Social media is constantly changing, with new platforms and features coming up regularly. It’s important to connect with your audience using the right platforms and features. It can be overwhelming to keep up with these changes without investing a lot of time. Understand Your Objectives and Audience Before you get involved in the newest social media trends, it’s important to know exactly what you’re aiming for and who you want to connect with. What are your goals for promoting, and how can social media play a role in achieving them? Who are the people you’d like to reach, and where do they spend time on the internet? What type of content do they enjoy and engage with? Being aware of your objectives and audience will guide you in selecting the appropriate platforms, styles, and tactics for your social media marketing efforts Follow Leading Social Media Influencers Influencer marketing is one of the prominent trends on social media and you can use it to your advantage. How? One of the simplest ways to stay informed about the latest social media trends is by following influential figures in the industry. Social media influencers have their finger on the pulse of what’s trending and often share valuable insights, tips, and strategies. Platforms like Instagram, YouTube, and Twitter are home to a vast number of experts who regularly create content around the latest trends and updates. By subscribing to their channels, you can access valuable knowledge and stay informed about emerging trends. Explore Trending Topics on Twitter Many individuals, including those in the field of marketing, use Twitter to stay updated. Twitter’s trending section allows you to easily discover what people are discussing and which hashtags are popular in your country. If you have an international audience, you can also use a VPN to track trends in other countries. Once you’re aware of Twitter’s trending topics, you can begin making content that fits with those subjects. For instance, if you notice that #MemorialDay is trending, you could create a social media post about the holiday. Explore What’s Trending on Instagram Staying informed about Instagram trends can be done in a few simple ways. If you use Instagram often, you’ll likely come across new and popular content on your Explore page. Taking a few minutes each day to go through this part of the app can help you stay updated. Another helpful trick to keep up with trends on Instagram is to follow big meme accounts. These accounts usually share posts about what’s currently popular or in the news. This means that whenever you open the Instagram app, you’ll see the latest posts from these accounts. This could spark your creativity and give you great ideas to make something unique. Discover Trends with Google Trends Google Trends is another useful tool for observing trends both in the U.S. and abroad. It can also help you compare different topics and determine which ones are becoming more popular. With a better understanding of what’s currently trending, you can generate content based on that knowledge. For example, if a specific TV show or movie is trending, you could find a way to make use of the trend by crafting a post that connects it to your products or services. Engage Actively in Social Media Communities Joining social media communities and groups related to your niche is a great way to stay updated on trends. Platforms like Facebook and LinkedIn offer numerous groups where professionals and enthusiasts discuss the latest news, trends, and challenges. Engaging actively in these communities not only helps you stay informed but also allows you to network and build meaningful connections within your industry. Monitor Social Media News Websites and Blogs Social media news websites and blogs are dedicated to reporting the latest developments in the digital world. Websites like Social Media Examiner, HubSpot, and Buffer provide regular updates on platform changes, algorithm updates, and trending strategies. By setting aside some time to read these publications regularly, you can acquire valuable insights and actionable tips to implement in your social media strategy. In the End Social media is like a big, ever-changing place. If you spend a little time each day or week checking out social media sites and news, you’ll understand what’s popular and how things are changing. Keeping up with social media trends might seem hard. But these 10 tips can make it easier for you to manage your time well and stay informed. AWS (Amazon Web Services) is a well-known cloud platform that many people use. It is a very popular and widely used cloud platform worldwide. It provides more than 200 fully equipped services from data centers around the world. Many customers, including fast-growing startups, big companies, and government agencies, use AWS to save money, be more flexible, and be more innovative. It comes with lots of good things that can help businesses save time and money. AWS is considered the best in Cloud Computing, and there are valid reasons for this reputation. Let’s dive right into this blog. What is AWS Service? Amazon Web Services is a well-known cloud computing platform that offers different services like computing power, storage, and databases to people and businesses everywhere. It is highly regarded in the cloud service industry and serves a wide range of customers, including small startups, big companies, and government organizations. AWS is a flexible, safe, and dependable cloud service provider, and it is highly sought after in the Cloud Computing market. Many companies have invested a lot of money in this service, and it seems that the popularity of AWS will continue to grow. The main reasons for this are its wide availability in the market, the quality of its services and support, and the benefits it brings to its users. What are the Benefits of AWS? User Friendly Starting with the AWS cloud platform is super simple because it’s made for quick and secure access. The user-friendly interface of the AWS management console makes it easy to get going with just a few clicks. Businesses can quickly launch their applications and workloads without any hassle. Global Reach AWS has a vast network of data centers worldwide, allowing businesses to deploy their applications and services close to their target audience. This global reach enhances the end-user experience by reducing latency and improving responsiveness. It also facilitates compliance with data residency regulations, ensuring that sensitive information remains within specific geographic boundaries, making it the best choice for businesses. Innovation and Agility By adopting AWS, businesses gain access to a diverse range of cutting-edge technologies and services. AWS continuously updates its platform with new features and improvements, enabling businesses to leverage the latest advancements without the need for extensive upgrades or investments. This agility allows companies to experiment, innovate, and stay ahead of the competition. Reliability and High Availability AWS boasts a robust infrastructure that ensures high availability and reliability for critical applications and services. The platform’s redundancy and fault-tolerant design help minimize downtime and provide a resilient environment for your business operations. This reliability is particularly important for businesses that cannot afford extended periods of inactivity. High Computing Power AWS provides a huge amount of computing power through its cloud services, and that’s one of the best things about it, making it so popular. With AWS, there are almost no limits on bandwidth or storage, and businesses can use as much computing power as they need, depending on the services they use. The AWS infrastructure is also flexible, allowing users to easily scale up their applications and workloads by adding more resources whenever they need them. This is especially useful for businesses that need a lot of computational power but can’t afford to set up their own massive computing systems. Cost-Effectiveness AWS operates on a pay-as-you-go basis, so businesses only pay for the services they use. They can reduce costs by using fewer resources whenever they want. This means they don’t need to spend a lot of money upfront to expand their applications or waste money on unused hardware when they downsize. Moreover, there are no contracts or termination fees with AWS, making it easy for businesses to switch to another cloud provider if they decide to. AWS benefits from having many customers, so they can offer cost savings to their users by taking advantage of economies of scale. This can be very beneficial for businesses who wish to look for budget-friendly options. Conclusion AWS has revolutionized the way businesses operate by providing a powerful, scalable, and cost-effective cloud computing platform. By making the right use of AWS, your business can unlock a wealth of opportunities and remain at the forefront of technological advancements. So, whether you are a startup or an established enterprise, AWS is undoubtedly the right choice for your business’s cloud computing needs. Lead generation is like teamwork between sales and marketing in a business. Its main goal is to get people interested in a brand’s products and services and then turn them into customers who pay for those offerings. Unlike the old way of calling people randomly, lead generation now uses digital tools and methods. These include automatic tools for sales and marketing, as well as different online and offline ways of reaching out to people. Starting with the basics, it is important to understand what is a lead. Let’s start learning What is a Lead? A lead is someone who shows they’re interested in a company’s product or service. Instead of getting a surprise call from a stranger who got their contact details, leads usually hear from a business after they’ve shared their info for an offer, trial, or subscription. Leads are important because they help turn visitors into customers. But not all leads are alike. There are various types of leads, depending on how interested they are and where they are in the process of becoming a customer. What are the Benefits of Lead Generation? Helps Create Good Leads Good leads are really important for any business. You might have lots of people coming to your website, but if they aren’t interested in buying what you offer, it’s hard to make money. Lead Generation is great because it helps you find the right customers. You can focus on people who are likely to be interested in your stuff. When these people show interest and connect with your brand, you get leads that matter for your business. You can then use different ways to talk to them and turn them into customers faster. Budget-Friendly Generating leads using Digital Marketing can save you a lot of money. You have control over your spending and can focus on the people who matter most to your business. The cost for each lead usually depends on how hard it is to get them. If it’s easier, it’s cheaper. Better leads often turn into more sales. Business Growth A lead generation plan does more than just discover potential customers. It can also show you business chances. For example, a brand in your field that’s not your competitor might ask you to host an online event. When you team up with them, you can reach their audience and they can reach yours too. Working together like this can bring in more customers for both of you. With Digital Marketing, you can aim at certain groups of possible customers who matter. This gets you good leads that are likely to become buyers. In the end, you spend less money to get each lead through online campaigns compared to the older way How To Generate Leads in Digital Marketing? Social Media Communities Actively using social media is not just about making your own social media accounts, but also about becoming part of other online groups where people discuss things. Platforms like Facebook, LinkedIn, and Reddit are popular spots where people who like the same things chat. Even though these groups usually don’t allow ads, you can still join them to learn about your target audience and share helpful info. Ask questions and give useful answers to others’ questions without trying to sell stuff. If you believe your product or service could help them, you can send a polite message directly to them instead of spamming them. With Search Engine Optimization SEO or Search Engine Optimization helps businesses find potential customers. When people search for something on search engines, SEO makes sure that the businesses’ websites show up in the results. SEO is a natural way to do online marketing. It tweaks your website, blogs, and pages so that they appear higher up when someone searches for things. This helps more people see your stuff on the search results page. Let’s say someone looks up “designer bags online” If you’ve written a well-prepared article about “designer bags online” and made it easy for search engines to understand, your article could show up at the very top of the search results. Email Marketing You can leverage email marketing to generate leads. How? Build an email list by offering opt-in opportunities on your website and through content downloads. You must segment your email list based on user behavior and interests for personalized messaging. Moreover, send automated email sequences that provide value over time, nurturing leads through the sales funnel. Conclusion Lead generation can be difficult whether it is digital marketing agency lead generation or for your personal business. However, if it shows significant results, it can be very lucrative for the business and helps more people learn about your company. It also makes your business look better and more trustworthy, especially to those who might want to buy from you. It brings in really good potential customers, which can become sales and boost your profits even more. When it comes to succeeding in the web development landscape, it is imperative to recognize and stay on top of the competition. A toolkit that has gained significant popularity among developers is Laravel, a PHP framework that has simple functionality, offers aesthetics and provides value. Whether you are an expert developer or a newbie in the coding industry, understanding the core concepts behind Laravel can open up a new world for you to create efficient and maintainable web applications. So, here we will start with the basics of Laravel and its concepts. What is Laravel? Laravel is a free-to-use framework for PHP, which is strong and easy to grasp. It follows a design plan called model-view-controller. By using parts from various frameworks, Laravel creates a structured and practical web application. Laravel has many useful features that include the main elements of PHP frameworks like CodeIgniter, and Yii, and also features from languages like Ruby on Rails. It has a lot of features that make web development faster. If you know Core PHP and Advanced PHP, using Laravel will make your work simpler. It saves a great deal of time if you want to make a website from the start. Additionally, websites made with Laravel are safe and protected against various web attacks. What are the Core Concepts of Laravel? 1. Model-View-Controller (MVC) Architecture The Model-View-Controller (MVC) architecture is the foundation of Laravel, a design pattern that separates the application into three distinct components: Models, Views, and Controllers. This separation enables organized and efficient code development, making it easier to manage complex applications. Models: Models represent the data structures and business logic of the application. They interact with the database and encapsulate data-related tasks, such as querying and data manipulation. Views: Views handle the presentation layer of the application, responsible for rendering the user interface. With the help of Blade, Laravel’s templating engine, developers can create dynamic and reusable templates that are both readable and efficient. Controllers: Controllers act as intermediaries between Models and Views. They handle user requests, process data from Models, and pass the necessary information to Views for rendering. This separation of concerns enhances maintainability and enables developers to make changes without affecting other parts of the application. 2. Routing The process of mapping URLs to specific actions within an application is called routing. Laravel’s routing system simplifies this process with a clean and organized way to handle incoming requests. By determining routes in the web.php file, the web developers can specify which controller method should be invoked when a certain URL is accessed. This dynamic routing system allows for creating RESTful APIs, handling user authentication, and implementing various middleware for tasks like data validation or user authorization. 3. Artisan Laravel’s command-line interface, Artisan, offers a set of pre-built commands that streamline common development tasks. From generating boilerplate code to migrating databases and running tests, Artisan simplifies many aspects of the development process. Developers can even create their custom commands to automate repetitive tasks specific to their project. 4. Laravel Mix Modern web applications often involve JavaScript and CSS preprocessing. Laravel Mix simplifies these processes by providing a fluent API for defining Webpack build steps. Developers can compile, minimize, and optimize their assets with just a few lines of code. This integration streamlines the front-end development workflow, resulting in faster load times and better user experiences. 5. Eloquent ORM Database interactions are a critical aspect of web development, and Laravel’s Eloquent ORM (Object-Relational Mapping) simplifies this process. Eloquent enables developers to work with databases using object-oriented syntax instead of writing raw SQL queries. This not only enhances code readability but also reduces the potential for SQL injection vulnerabilities. Eloquent models encapsulate database tables, allowing developers to interact with data using intuitive methods and relationships. For instance, defining relationships like “one-to-many” or “many-to-many” between models becomes straightforward, streamlining complex database operations. 6. Middleware What’s in the middle bridging the gap between a response and a request? It’s Middleware, enabling developers to add layers of logic and security to the application’s routes. For example, authentication middleware can ensure that only authenticated users can access certain parts of the application while logging middleware can track user interactions for debugging or analytical purposes. Custom middleware can also be created to handle specific tasks, making the application more flexible and enabling the separation of concerns. The Bottom Line If developers want to create web applications quickly and easily, they should think about learning Laravel. Laravel gives a lot of helpful tools that make developing easier because it takes care of many common tasks so developers don’t have to start from the beginning. Laravel also offers a safe digital space to work in and easy-to-understand command-line tools. And because Laravel is easy to learn and has a strong community of support and resources, it’s a popular choice for all kinds of developers, whether they’re just starting out or have been doing this for years. So, get your Laravel projects developed with the help of expert developers at Arpatech and beat your competition. Every business or label on Instagram must grasp the art of generating genuine and natural interaction from users. Merely putting up posts is beneficial, but if they don’t receive likes, comments, or shares, your account will struggle. It is important to have active involvement in connecting your Instagram endeavors with actual business objectives. This article will thoroughly explore ways in which you can boost interaction using valid methods that reach actual individuals (not automated programs). We won’t discuss purchasing likes or followers, except to firmly advise against such practices. Authentic engagement opportunities are available for you on Instagram only if you work hard for them. What is Instagram Engagement? Instagram engagement means understanding how individuals are interacting with what you share. It looks at things like how many people follow you and the actions they take, such as liking, commenting, saving, and sharing your posts. This helps you figure out how much your content connects with your followers. How to Boost Engagement on Instagram? 1. Use Reel Features Reels are the most trending feature on Instagram these days as users watch them and enjoy them the most. Sharing any type of Reel can boost your Instagram involvement, but for the best results, focus on increasing the time people spend watching it. To do this, capture viewers’ attention within the initial three seconds of the Reel and keep them engaged throughout. There are many important Reel features you can try out such as Transitions which are quick changes from one scene to another and add energetic movement. Use the align tool for smooth transitions between cuts. Another feature is Timed text that highlights certain words or phrases or labels different parts of your Reel. Moreover, Trending audio includes popular audio tracks in your Reel can significantly enhance your visibility. Voiceover is especially effective if you’re explaining or describing something, like a process or a recipe. The last one is Templates. Starting with a Reels template makes it very easy to synchronize your photos and video clips with an audio track. 2. Aesthetics Are Important On Instagram, pictures are super important – they’re what people see first. But if you don’t focus on how your brand looks, the first time someone interacts with your brand might be the only time. People using Instagram like to see nice-looking stuff on their feeds. If they decide to follow you – which can make your Instagram more popular – they want to be sure you can always share great-looking pictures. The best part is that you already have a kind of collection on your profile called your Instagram grid. When people check out your grid, they should see graphics and pictures that match your brand, using similar filters and other things that show your brand’s style. 3. Run Contests and Giveaways People love free stuff, and running contests or giveaways can drive engagement and excitement. Ask users to like, comment, and share your post to enter. Make sure the rules are clear, and the prize is relevant to your audience. This not only boosts engagement but also helps spread the word about your brand. 4. Interact with Users Nobody enjoys the feeling of being ignored in a chat. It’s almost as bad if someone doesn’t give you attention when you talk to them. Think about it like this: if you tried to talk to someone and they just smiled and walked away, it wouldn’t make you feel very good, right? Whenever someone who follows you on Instagram talks to you, it’s good to talk back. Show them that you’re paying attention by replying thoughtfully to their comments, and direct messages, and when they mention you in their posts. When you respond well, it can encourage them to talk to you more in the future, and it’s like building strong friendships step by step. 5. Use Relevant Hashtags Hashtags are like keywords that help users discover your posts. Research and use relevant hashtags that relate to your content and industry. However, don’t overdo it. A handful of well-chosen hashtags are more effective than a long list of random ones. Create a branded hashtag that represents your business and encourages user-generated content. 6. Collaborate with Influencers Instagram is a place where you can talk and do things with others. But what’s the use if you’re not joining in and doing things with other accounts? When you connect with accounts that are similar to yours, it’s like spreading a wide net to catch more people who might become your followers. It’s even better when those accounts belong to big names in your field, like industry influencers. These influencers have lots of devoted followers, and if they notice you, it can help more people see your stuff and get to know your brand. So, look for important people in your field, get to know them, and then work together with them. You can show them in your posts, share their stuff, and make things together. The Bottom Line Boosting your Instagram engagement doesn’t have to be complicated. Remember, authenticity is key—be genuine in your interactions, and let your unique brand voice shine through. With these tips in mind, you’re well on your way to creating a meaningful presence on Instagram. Cloud computing allows companies to easily manage and expand their computer systems. That is why more and more businesses are moving to the cloud, and now more than half of their important information is stored there. But using the cloud also brings some difficulties. Cloud technologies offer incomparable scalability, cost-efficiency, and flexibility, enabling companies to focus on their core competencies. However, with these benefits come a set of challenges that businesses must be acutely aware of to make the most of their cloud computing journey. Let us learn what cloud computing is and its challenges that businesses need to be cautious of. What is Cloud Computing? Cloud computing is the delivery of computing services that includes servers, storage, databases, networking, software, analytics, and intelligence—over the internet i.e. “the cloud”. Cloud computing is a model for enabling ubiquitous, convenient, on-demand network access to a shared pool of configurable computing resources (e.g., networks, servers, storage, applications, and services) that can be rapidly provisioned and released with minimal management effort or service provider interaction. Cloud services are available on a pay-as-you-go basis, which means that businesses only pay for the resources they use. This can help businesses save money on IT costs. What are the Challenges of Cloud Computing? Data Privacy and Compliance As data protection regulations like General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) are rising, businesses make sure that their data handling practices in the cloud are compliant with these regulations. It is imperative to understand where data is stored and processed when it’s reserved in various geographical locations. 2. Multiple Cloud Systems For businesses, typical problems with cloud computing services and dealing with multiple cloud systems include mistakes in setup, missing security updates, problems with controlling data, and not having detailed control. It is difficult to make sure all the security needs are met and to manage data rules across different cloud platforms. How can you fix it? Companies can begin by using a tool to manage data in multiple clouds. Not all tools have the same security features, and handling many cloud systems is quite advanced. Free tools like Terraform give a lot of power over managing multiple cloud setups. 3. Downtime and Reliability Cloud computing service outages can occur due to hardware failures, software glitches, or even human error. While cloud providers strive to maintain high availability, businesses need to be prepared at all times for the possibility of downtime. To mitigate the impact of potential downtime, businesses can design their applications to be fault-tolerant and dispersed across multiple availability zones. Regularly ensuring data backups are up-to-date and testing disaster recovery plans are also crucial steps in maintaining business continuity. 4. Cloud Computing Security Challenges Security is perhaps the biggest challenge that businesses face when it comes to cloud computing. Sensitive data is often stored in the cloud, and businesses need to ensure that this data is protected from unauthorized access. There are several cloud computing security risks associated with cloud computing, such as data breaches, DDoS attacks, and insider threats. Businesses need to take steps to mitigate these risks by implementing appropriate security measures, such as data encryption, access control, and intrusion detection. 5. Cost Management and Optimization While cloud computing services can offer cost savings compared to traditional on-premises infrastructure, businesses need to manage their cloud costs effectively. The pay-as-you-go model can lead to unexpected expenses if resources are not properly monitored and optimized. To address this challenge, businesses should implement cost management tools provided by cloud providers to track resource usage and spending. Moreover, regularly reviewing and adjusting resource allocation based on actual usage patterns can help optimize costs. 6. Insufficient Skillset One of the problems is that there aren’t enough people who know how to use cloud computing. The teams that work with computers already don’t always know how to move things to the cloud and use it well. Another problem is not having enough things like money and tools or resources. So, what can be done? Think ahead about what you need. Plan and understand what you’ll need to successfully move and take care of things in the cloud. You can also get help from experts. If you are not sure what to do, let someone else who knows a lot about the cloud take care of some tasks. This way, you can learn from them. Working with experts can fix these problems. When you let someone else manage your cloud stuff, you don’t have to worry as much. They can help your computer team a lot. The Bottom Line The success of cloud projects depends on businesses tackling challenges strategically. To maximize benefits and overcome issues, it’s crucial to plan carefully, collaborate between business and IT teams, explore hybrid cloud solutions, and choose the right cloud service partner. Moreover, we at Arpatech, are operating in the IT industry for more than 15 years, we have the knowledge and tools needed to make sure businesses, no matter how big or what they do, have good and smooth technology solutions. Whether it is looking after your cloud services well or keeping an eye on your computer network’s safety to stop problems and interruptions, we’re here to help you all along the journey. So, let’s partner up today for an advanced tomorrow! Development and operations (DevOps) include tests and QA and involve people from the business side, incorporating various roles within the delivery team, of course, we cannot overlook the importance of our customers. It is a collaborative effort from the entire team. Test automation is also an important element in successfully achieving continuous delivery, where we can smoothly deploy frequent small changes to the production environment. Test automation in DevOps involves using specialized tools and scripts to automate the testing of software applications throughout the development lifecycle. It encompasses various types of tests, such as unit testing, integration testing, and end-to-end testing. Automation aims to replace manual testing efforts with automated processes, reducing human errors and increasing the efficiency of software delivery. Factors to Consider when Defining Test Automation in DevOps 1. Right Tools Modern tools for automating tests can greatly enhance your team’s ability to consistently provide high-quality software. When you’re looking at testing tools, think about how easy they are to create tests with, how dependable they are, how much maintenance they need, and how well they fit into your continuous integration and continuous delivery setup. Understanding how long it takes to learn a tool and what skills are needed is just as important. If a tool is easy to use, your team can learn it quickly. This means more people on your team can use it, which can increase the number of tests you can run and help promote a culture of making good-quality software. One good way to figure out if a testing tool is right for you is to have your whole team spend some time using a few top options to automate test scenarios you care about. 2. Frequent Release Cycle If you release updates a lot, it’s a good idea to use test automation, especially for tests that need to be done every time you update. If you don’t release updates often but want to speed it up, you can begin by making more tests that focus on small parts of your code and making easy tests that quickly check if the basic parts of your software work. After that, you can slowly work on creating more tests that cover the whole journey through your software. These kinds of tests help you find problems faster when you put out new versions. 3. CI/CD Environments Making automated tests is not easy. But sometimes, the reason teams don’t start using automated tests in the early stages of making software is because they don’t have the right setup with test information. That’s why it’s necessary to talk as a team about testing plans and agree to set up the needed testing tools from the start. For instance, programmers should add ways to use test accounts and make it possible to load a test setup using a special tool. If teams create the tools for setting up temporary test setups early on, it will really help make reviewing and giving feedback on the software updates faster. 4. Established Product If you are working on an established product, integrating test automation into your development process is crucial for fast and reliable updates. For new products, starting with automated testing is a great opportunity. Set goals for testing coverage and focus on end-to-end testing, but wait until a feature is nearly complete before testing the entire product to avoid issues from changing interfaces. What are the Benefits of Test Automation in DevOps? 1. Speed and Efficiency Traditional manual testing methods are time-consuming and prone to human errors. Test automation significantly speeds up the testing process by executing test scripts in parallel and around the clock. This efficiency allows development teams to release software updates more frequently and with confidence. 2. Early Bug Detection Automated tests can be integrated into the development pipeline, enabling early detection of bugs and issues. This early feedback loop allows developers to identify and address problems before they escalate, reducing the cost and complexity of fixing issues later in the development cycle. 3. Regression Testing With frequent updates and feature additions, it is imperative to ensure that new changes do not inadvertently break existing functionalities. Test automation excels in conducting thorough regression tests, verifying that new code doesn’t negatively impact previously working features. The Bottom Line Test automation in DevOps offers a powerful way to enhance software development by increasing speed, accuracy, and efficiency. There are challenges in implementing and maintaining automated tests; however, the benefits outweigh the efforts. By evaluating needs and choosing the right tools, teams can easily integrate test automation into their DevOps workflow. The software world keeps changing and mastering test automation is becoming essential for delivering high-quality software at a rapid pace. Work with expert QA specialists at Arpatech and ensure that you get the best software at the end of the development cycle! Let’s admit: The AI revolution has taken over the world today and we’re just here to keep up with its rapid progression. For many companies, AI is becoming a major part of their strategies, like making their website appear better on search engines and promoting their content. But how exactly do you use AI to make your content work better for search engines? Even though it might seem hard to use AI for SEO, it is actually quite straightforward, it mostly depends on the AI tools you use. How Does AI Help SEO? Search Engine Optimization is an integral part of driving organic traffic to your website and with the help of Artificial Intelligence, our approach to SEO has taken a significant turn. AI has become a powerful tool that can greatly enhance your SEO strategies, helping you achieve better rankings, improved user experiences, and increased organic traffic. But what’s the secret recipe for getting it right? How to Use AI for SEO Content? 1. Keyword Research Finding and integrating the right keywords are the backbone of all things SEO, and AI upgrades this process and makes it relatively easier. AI tools such as SEO.ai can analyze search trends, competitor strategies, and user behavior to suggest highly relevant keywords that can drive traffic. These AI tools can even predict emerging keywords, giving you a competitive edge. By using AI for SEO keyword research, you ensure that your content aligns with what users are actively searching for. 2. Topic Analyzation Many AI tools help you analyze the blog topic and tell you if it is trending or not. Every AI tool works in different ways, so the way it gives you keywords or topics might be different each time. One such tool is Clearscope, which shows a range of how many times you typically see a term appear in a top search result. Some tools might even handle the whole process of submitting and sharing the results with your team. The information you get from your AI tool will also be different. Some of the information may include suggestions for how many words to write, related keywords to us, blog topic ideas, what the content can be about, and more. 3. Content Creation Finding good content ideas is just a small part of the challenge of doing really well in search engine results. You also need to make content that is up to the mark and matches what people are looking for. This is where AI can be useful for making your website show up better in search results. AI can help you figure out what kind of content you should make. When you give it the main word you are aiming for, AI-powered tools search the internet for content about that word and give you information about the gaps in the content, the trending topics, the important sections to focus on, and much more. Some of these tools include Google Bard and Word AI. With this kind of information, it becomes easier to make content that is just right for solving particular problems for your readers. In short, you can make personalized content that gives people what they’re looking for. Making content now isn’t only about creating randomness just to get a good position in search results. It is about creating content that people will actually find useful. 4. Content Optimization AI tools such as RankMath SEO and Yoast SEO 21.0 analyze your content and suggest optimizations to improve its SEO. They propose keyword placements, suggest related keywords, and even help you create compelling meta titles and descriptions that grab users’ attention in search results. 5. User Experience User experience is a pivotal factor in SEO. AI can help in personalizing user experiences by analyzing user behavior and customizing content recommendations. This not only keeps users engaged but also reduces bounce rates, indirectly boosting your SEO rankings. Chatbots powered by AI can provide instant assistance, enhancing the overall user experience and increasing the chances of conversions. The Bottom Line Using AI to enhance your SEO content has become a practical reality. AI tools can save you time, provide valuable insights, and help you create content that resonates with your audience. Remember, AI isn’t here to replace you; it is here to assist and amplify your efforts. It is important to understand that AI is a great help; however, you cannot completely rely on it. It can be used for inspiration and to get your mind working but the real efforts have to come from your side. Have an idea for an app? Turn your app idea into reality with these simple steps: In a world that changes a lot and quickly, the old methods of project management and software development sometimes seem outdated. That is when Agile Software Development comes in. It is a flexible and adaptable way of working that has changed how teams get things done. So, here we will learn the main ideas of Agile and its principles. What is the Agile Software Development Process? Agile software development has completely transformed the way software is developed. At its core, Agile is a set of principles and practices that focuses on flexibility, collaboration, and customer satisfaction. Instead of strictly following a predefined plan, Agile embraces change and adapts to evolving requirements. It is a method of handling projects and creating software where teams work in smaller steps to give value to customers. In Agile software development, teams aim to deliver small, usable parts of the project instead of putting all their efforts into one big release. What are the Principles of the Agile Software Development Process? When we look at Agile Software development, there are some rule and regulations that we need to follow: Principle 1: Customer Satisfaction is Important The main goal of any software development is to ensure that all their customers are happy by providing them with valuable applications as soon as possible. To achieve this, it is important to release applications early, and make frequent improvements by listening to what customers require. Unlike traditional methods of creating products, which often take a long time, agile principles emphasize reducing the time from coming up with an idea to launching it. The aim is to put a working product in customers’ hands as quickly as we can. Principle 2: Embrace Changing Requirements Embrace changes in what the customer wants, even if they come later in the project. Agile methods use these changes to help the customer stay ahead of their competition. It is a fast world and Agile ideas say it is better to adapt to these changes rather than stick to old plans. In the past, when making products, people usually didn’t like to change their plans even if they found something new. However, according to Agile ideas, it is better to watch how the market, customer needs, and competition change and adjust your plans when needed. Principle 3: Use Face-to-Face Communication While remote work and tools can be useful, Agile encourages in-person or real-time communication to reduce misunderstandings and promote collaboration. Principle 4: Release Working Software Often When working with agile, releasing software in smaller parts means, every part released works perfectly. This enables faster, more accurate development. This agile way, with short development cycles for smaller parts of the product, means less time spent on lots of paperwork, which is common in Waterfall development. Most importantly, releasing frequently gives more chances to get feedback from the right people who see each new version of the product. Principle 5: Working Together as a Team Communication and collaboration go hand in hand in any project to reach succeed, and in agile, it is a major requirement, and that only happens if these two teams work together effectively. communicating regularly helps everyone in the company understand each other better, and it builds trust and openness. Principle 6: Strive for Technical Excellence and Good Design High-quality software is a priority in Agile software development to minimize technical debt and ensure long-term maintainability. Principle 7: Organize Projects with Motivated People Provide the right conditions and help they need, then believe in them to finish the work. Agile’s core idea is to give individuals and teams the power to do their jobs with trust and independence. It’s crucial to select the right people with the right skills for the agile team and set clear roles before starting a project. But once the work begins, there’s no room for closely controlling or guiding every little detail in Agile. Principle 8: Working Software Defines Progress In the agile way of thinking, they say our main job is to make software, and that’s where we should focus our efforts. Having perfect and detailed documents comes after having working software. This way of thinking encourages getting products to customers fast instead of waiting for everything to be perfect. The real sign of success is a working product that customers really like. Principle 9: Agile Supports Steady, Lasting Progress Meeting tight deadlines can be tough for a team, especially if the goals are too high. Agile suggests being aware of this and setting achievable, clear goals. The goal is to keep the team’s spirits up and make sure they have a good balance between work and life. This way, we can avoid people getting exhausted or leaving the team. Principle 10: 80/20 Rule You may have come across the 80/20 rule, which suggests that you can achieve 80% of your goals with just 20% of the effort. Agile ideas promote this approach, urging us to concentrate on what really matters. In product management, this means staying very focused on the organization’s goals and being willing to make tough choices about what to work on. Agile principles advise against creating things just for the sake of it and stress the importance of being strategic and purposeful in your work. Principle 11: Self-Organizing Team This software development process recommends using teams that organize themselves and make decisions accordingly, rather than having one management team. This fits with the agile focus on valuing teams and how they work together, rather than just following strict processes or using certain tools. The goal is to give teams the freedom to work together effectively. Principle 12: Team Regularly Reflects and Adjusts to Improve Effectiveness We learn from our customers and markets, and we also learn from how we learn. Agile is not about sticking to a fixed process for every step; it is about always getting better. This improvement applies to our methods and teams too. The Bottom Line There are various Agile frameworks, each with its unique characteristics, but the fundamental principles remain the same. The Agile principles have been adapted and applied beyond software development to various industries and domains, as they provide a flexible and customer-focused approach to managing projects and delivering value. For any queries, visit Arpatech for a free consultation and learn how Agile Software development works from the experts! Chatbots are here to stay. When you go online, you often encounter different types of chatbots, which comprise most of your online experiences. These chatbots come in various forms, such as comment bots or even harmful ones that spread viruses. However, the most common and beneficial chatbots are the ones used by businesses to enhance their growth by engaging with customers, providing support, and using chatbot marketing. Many companies have effectively started using chatbots for marketing purposes. So, let us begin with a basic understanding of what chatbots are. What are Chatbots? Chatbots are AI-powered virtual assistants that can engage in real-time conversations with users and have become an integral part of digital marketing strategies for businesses of all sizes. There are two kinds of chatbots: rule-based ones and ones that use artificial intelligence (AI). Rule-based chatbots are preprogrammed to respond in a certain manner every time, depending on the keywords that they receive. On the other hand, AI chatbots, use machine learning algorithms to learn from the messages and respond accordingly. They reply to customer queries more naturally. What is Chatbot Marketing? Chatbot marketing is a digital strategy that uses chatbots, basically, automated messaging tools powered by AI or set scripts that engage with customers, answer questions, and support the sales process. These chatbots can be integrated into websites, messaging apps, and social media platforms, allowing businesses to communicate directly with users at any time of day. Chatbots help guide potential customers through different stages of their journey by simulating conversations, from answering initial questions to assisting with purchases. Brands design these virtual assistants using a chatbot creator and add them to messaging platforms such as Facebook Messenger, Instagram, WhatsApp, and Snapchat or embed them into their own websites What Sets a Marketing Chatbot Apart from a Regular Bot? The key distinction lies in the fact that a marketing chatbot is designed for specific marketing purposes. These computer programs engage with users either through predefined scripts or by utilizing artificial intelligence. Also, its success is evaluated by its capability to attract customers to subscribe to a newsletter or motivate them to make purchases from your company’s online store. Why is Chatbot Marketing Beneficial for Businesses? 1. Round-the-Clock Availability Did you know that more than 50% of your customers expect you to be available 24/7? Round-the-clock availability is not humanly possible. So, how about you make it easy and opt for chatbot marketing? Even if a potential customer is visiting your website late at night, a marketing chatbot is available to offer them your latest collection as a suggestion and assist with orders. This can enhance the shopping experience and potentially lead to a loyal consumer base and additional sales for your business. 2. Lead Generation Chatbots can get the information they need to help you well, especially when they are on your website. For instance, if a chatbot asks why you are on a website, it can assist you in finding what you are looking for and encouraging you to take action. Also, chatbots for marketing can increase sales when they are set up to send you messages about deals and savings to make buying faster. By understanding what customers and potential customers are saying in their messages, chatbots can guide them in the right direction, whether it is helping them or connecting them with the sales team. 3. Customer Engagement Chatbots can engage more people on your website and help you sell more products by chatting with customers. You can also make your chatbots for marketing take orders and guide customers to buy things as a part of an intelligent chatbot marketing campaign. 4. Cost-Effectiveness Utilizing the efficiency of chatbots on a daily basis can significantly reduce customer service costs by handling routine inquiries and tasks, freeing up human resources for more complex issues. Summing It Up Now is the time to think about what your business needs, look into which chatbot platform suits your business the most, and start creating one of the chatbot marketing examples mentioned earlier. If you need more clarification on this subject, you can always reach out to the team at Arpatech, and we’ll be happy to assist you in choosing the best AI for your business! One of the most widely enjoyed activities globally is online shopping. People spend a huge amount of time shopping online. But usually, when someone goes to a website, they stay for less than 54 seconds. So, if your online store does not look good and takes a long time to load, customers will leave immediately. That’s why store owners need to focus on making the online shopping experience as great as possible. When you invest in making your online store user-friendly, you can make shopping better and encourage customers to come back for more. Experienced UI/UX web designers and developers know how to achieve the best shopping experience as they specialize in building high-quality online stores. What is UI and UX Web Design? UI Design UI design, which stands for User Interface, is about how things appear to the user. This includes choosing colors, arranging pages, picking fonts, and making buttons and other things that users can click on look good. UX Design UX design, known largely as User Experience is all about making sure users have appositive interaction with your site. It involves researching what users enjoy and ensuring that the app or website is easy to use. What Do UI/UX Designers Do? Both UX and UI designers play a big role in making the final product great because they take care of what the users experience on the app or website. Here’s what they do: Study what users want. Develop user profiles and maps to understand how users will use the app. Make prototypes and wireframes of how the final product should work. Decide how everything should look, like the page layout, colors, fonts, and clickable things. Collaborate with other designers and web developers. Importance of UI/UX Design Services in E-Commerce Web Development Customer Satisfaction Keeping customers happy is super important for any product to do well. When you ensure that your UI/UX design services produce visually appealing and interactive web applications, it satisfies your consumers. When they are happy, they not only come to your e-commerce website more often, but they also stick around as regular customers. This means you do not have to spend as much money on advertising. So, make sure that you spend time and effort on UI/UX web design, competing with others and winning over all new visitors as soon as they experience your store’s interface. First Impression Matters When a potential customer lands on your e-commerce website, their first impression plays a crucial role in whether they stay and explore or bounce away. An attractive and well-organized UI grabs their attention, while a user-friendly and fast-loading UX ensures they can easily find what they are looking for. Conversion Rates The goal of any e-commerce website is to convert visitors into customers. A well-thoughtout UX, which includes easy checkout processes and clear call-to-action buttons, significantly boost conversion rates. Revenue Generation Successful businesses are the ones that understand what their customers need and how to help them. Having an interactive UI/UX web design is like having a strong base for your e-commerce business. When you make it easy for customers to find and purchase what they want, you automatically generate revenue. People decide if they like your app in just 10-15 seconds, if your UI/UX is not up to the mark, they leave quickly. If you do this well, and remember that each customer is important, you can successfully go above your competition. Common UI/UX Mistakes to Avoid for E-Commerce Web Development Bad Shopping Cart Experience For online sellers, the shopping cart experience is very important. It includes adding, removing, and reviewing items. A poorly designed cart with confusing options, unclear shipping choices, intrusive promo code fields, or inadequate product information can lead to abandoned purchases. To enhance this experience, it is necessary to enable easy product selection and seamless navigation back to the shopping page. Display a concise cart summary indicating the number of items in the cart and provide comprehensive product details, including size and color. Low-Quality Images or Vague Product Descriptions Insufficient product descriptions such as low-quality images, incomplete or unclear descriptions, lack of effective call to action, can cause various problems like slow-loading website, unclear images, and missed opportunities to engage visitors with related content. To combat this issue, you can develop high-quality product descriptions and images that offer accuracy, completeness, and engagement, while also showcasing important details and providing additional options to visitors. Not Mobile-Friendly Did you know that more than 90% of people do not trust websites that lack a mobile-friendly version? It may be astonishing, but there are still many websites that do not adjust well to mobile devices. This statistic is noteworthy because Google penalizes websites that are not mobile-friendly. Keep in mind that your customers will access your website using various devices, including tablets, smartphones, desktops, and laptops. Therefore, it is imperative to ensure a smooth and enjoyable user experience (UX) on all devices. Take measures to optimize your website for slow computers and connections. Moreover, ensure that your designs display correctly across different browsers and devices. The Bottom Line The role of UI/UX design services in eCommerce web development cannot be overstated. A well-designed and user-friendly website not only attracts customers but also keeps them engaged, leading to customer retention. If you are planning to launch an online shopping website, investing in custom e-commerce web development is a wise decision that can make a significant difference in driving traffic to your store. Get in touch with UI/UX experts at Arpatech and get a free consultation today! The conventional methods of software development struggle to keep up with the demand for top-notch software applications. Unlike the traditional approach where the development and operations teams operate separately, DevOps is a more effective method. It eliminates these isolated working environments and encourages continuous communication and cooperation between these teams throughout the entire software development process. With DevOps monitoring tools, this shift mitigates problems such as delays, errors, and misunderstandings, ultimately leading to more efficient and high-quality software delivery. What is DevOps Monitoring? DevOps monitoring is the practice of keeping tabs on how software applications are operating. From planning and development to deployment and user experience, we monitor every stage of the software cycle. With a separate monitoring team assisting the development team, they find and fix problems before the software is deployed, enabling top-tier user experience. What Are Monitoring Tools in DevOps? DevOps monitoring tools are software solutions designed to help DevOps teams track, manage, and optimize various aspects of the software development. These tools play a significant role in ensuring the reliability, performance, and security of applications. These monitoring tools in DevOps offer a wide range of capabilities. List of Top Monitoring Tools in DevOps Top DevOps monitoring tools help teams respond swiftly and automatically when anything goes wrong for users. Some of the most popular tools are: 1. Sensu Sensu is an open-source project used for keeping an eye on servers, services, applications, and parts of your computer setup. Another version of Sensu, called “Sensu earlier in the development process, which means fewer problems reaching the final product. Whether it is fixing problems manually or by using automated tools, better software tracking and measurement make it possible by Sumo Logic, it is a lightweight, open-source software that can monitor, analyze, and send alerts about data from any source. Sensu is like a detective tool for organizations. It helps them find and solve problems before those problems can damage the business. Sensu gives you a complete view of how well your computer system works by running various checks such as HTTP checks, TCP checks, examining logs, and keeping an eye on processes. All this helps create an accurate picture of your computer setup. 2. Prometheus Prometheus is a DevOps monitoring tool that is used to keep an eye on and study an organization’s computer system. It’s a system for monitoring and storing data over time, particularly when there’s a lot of data coming in very quickly. It’s made to handle the needs of big, modern computer setups. Prometheus includes ready-made parts for saving its data, sending out alerts when certain conditions happen, showing the data as graphs in real time, and asking questions about the information it collects. It can also keep records of past events for a long time without losing any details. 3. PagerDuty PagerDuty is a platform designed specifically to offer various capabilities such as monitoring alerts, scheduling on-call shifts, creating escalation plans, and closely watching for incidents that could disrupt their applications. Using PagerDuty, operations teams get timely alerts. These alerts help them swiftly identify, assess, and fix issues, whether they occur during the development phase or in the production environment. PagerDuty’s incident response and alerting services are efficient and easy to use, making it a valuable tool for teams managing operations. 4. Zabbix Zabbix is a free and open-source DevOps monitoring tool that is used to monitor and handle a computer network. It has tools that help gather information in a network, like servers, workstations, and virtual machines. It can do this with or without having special programs on those computers. To monitor big networks, Zabbix can use “proxies.” These proxies watch over the computers in those places and send information back to the main server or another proxy. All the data collected by these watchers can be stored in almost any kind of database that understands SQL, like Oracle or MySQL. 5. Librato Librato is a cloud-based DevOps monitoring tool that helps businesses keep track of important metrics across their entire system. It offers all the necessary features for visualizing, analyzing, and getting alerts about these metrics. Librato comes with a comprehensive range of solutions for monitoring and analyzing data. It provides a variety of services that help you understand the monitored data and offers excellent visualizations. Moreover, its user interface is easy to navigate and user-friendly. You can trust the alerts it sends, allowing you to take appropriate actions based on your production environment’s current situation. The Bottom Line For Enhancing DevOps with effective monitoring practices, you can utilize these diverse range of top DevOps monitoring tools available. These tools cover a lot of different ways organizations work. Whether you need a full-featured platform or a specialized tool, you can find a DevOps monitoring tool that fits your needs and streamlines your business operations. If you need more clarity on the subject, don’t hesitate to reach out to Arpatech’s developers for a free consultation! It is a cut-throat industry where competition is growing every day and you must ensure you are making the most of your advertising budget. However, with the new Pay-Per-Click (PPC) trends constantly appearing, the PPC goals keep changing too and it can be challenging to figure out which PPC trends are worth focusing on. Even in 2023, using PPC marketing is still a great way to grow your business even bigger. But what used to work for your PPC ads before may not work now, as there is always a need for advanced media strategies. People change, and so does the technology that marketers use. Search engines and social media sites also make changes now and then that you should remember. So, it is difficult to keep up with the latest paid media trends in 2023. Therefore, we have a list of the best PPC trends that you must not neglect this year. So, let’s start 1. Dynamic Search Ads Dynamic Search Ads (DSAs) are a popular type of PPC trend 2023 that is becoming even more powerful in 2023. With DSAs, marketers can make ads that change automatically based on where users are, what devices they use, or their language preferences. This makes sure that ads are more relevant to users, leading to more people clicking on them and taking action. In simple terms, dynamic search ads allow you to customize ads for each person's location, device, or language. You save time and money because you don't have to make lots of different ads. Instead, you create one template and tweak it for different groups of people. This helps you reach more people and get more clicks and conversions. 2. Voice Search 27% of people worldwide use voice search on their mobiles to ask questions. That means that it is important to make your advanced PPC strategies work well for it. Voice search is getting really popular because of assistants like Alexa and Siri. It's also quicker than typing, which is great for people on the move. So, when you create your paid ads, think about voice search. If you don't, you might miss out on chances and money. To do well with voice search, you can focus on local searches, you can think about mobile users first. Moreover, optimize your longer, more specific keywords, and use words that sound like questions in your keywords. 3. Leveraging Automation If you have not started making the most of automation, it is a good time to begin. AI tools such as ChatGPT, have been making waves recently, and experts believe it will be a major part of digital marketing in 2023 and beyond. Also, Google introduced some significant changes with Performance Max and Responsive Search Ads. This shows that Google is really emphasizing automation in their product plans, and we can expect to see more of it in the future regarding PPC trends in 2023. 4. Bumper Ad Campaigns In the world of mobile content, video is really important, and it will stay that way in 2023. Actually, people who know how to use video in their marketing are making more profit than those who don't. Video ads are good for reaching more customers and making your brand look good, and they don't cost a lot; one such approach with respect to PPC advice is bumper ad campaigns. Bumper ads are a type of short video ad. They are made to help you reach more customers and make them remember your brand with a short and catchy message. These videos are really short, just 6 seconds or less. They give people a quick message and people cannot skip these ads while watching the video. 5. Targeting Audience To make PPC campaigns work well, a brand has to be seen by its audience when they are on the internet. With paid media trends in 2023, marketing teams pay less attention to the keywords and more to the characteristics that define their target market. Marketers can control audience targeting and make the most of it. So, whether it is how much money people make or their age, it is important to decide which characteristics matter most for the product you're selling to help target the audience better. 6. Meta Ads Best Practices In 2023, Meta remains a major player in the world of social media advertising. To make the most of Meta ads, it is essential to follow best practices. This includes creating engaging ad creatives, using audience targeting effectively, and optimizing your ad placements. Meta offers various ad formats, such as video ads and carousel ads, which can be leveraged to capture the attention of your target audience. 7. AI-Powered Ads AI-powered ads are the future of social media marketing strategy. Take the example of Instagram's Multi-advertiser ads. These ads show advertisements from various companies depending on how people use the app, their behavior, and their interactions. Even though marketers can't directly create this ad format, it uses AI to show a brand's existing ads to people who are interested in buying. The AI looks at how people act on the app and shows them ads that match their traits. As a marketer, it's important to leverage such PPC trends for social media ads. The Bottom Line In 2023, pay-per-click (PPC) marketers should pay extra attention. The year will bring challenges due to economic uncertainty, political tensions, and more automation. It won't be a smooth ride but surely, a fruitful one. So, you should not just wait and hope for the best in 2023. To keep growing and stay in the game, you have to plan ahead considering your PPC goals and trends in 2023. How to choose a quality mobile web development company? That’s the question that keeps many quality-conscious individuals and businesses concerned. The reason? businesses are swiftly turning to mobile app development to reach a wider audience, improve customer engagement, and boost their brand presence. However, given a proliferation of mobile application development platforms in the last few years, choosing the right company for your app might be a challenging undertaking. This blog post will explore the factors to consider when selecting the right mobile platform for your app, ensuring you make an informed decision that is consistent with your business goals and target audience. Understanding Mobile App Development Platforms Mobile app platforms provide the tools and frameworks necessary to create and deploy mobile apps. These platforms can be broadly categorized into three main types: Native App Development Platforms: Native app development involves creating separate codebases for each platform, such as iOS and Android. This approach results in apps that are highly optimized for each platform, offering superior performance and a seamless user experience. However, native app development can be more time-consuming and expensive. Cross-Platform App Development Platforms: Cross-platform app development utilizes frameworks like React Native and Flutter to create apps that can run on multiple platforms using a single codebase. This approach offers cost-effectiveness and faster development times, but may compromise on performance and native features. Hybrid App Development Platforms: Hybrid app development combines elements of native and cross-platform development. Apps are built using web technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript, and then wrapped in a native container for deployment on various platforms. Hybrid apps offer a balance between development speed and performance, but may have limitations in accessing native device features. Factors to Consider When Choosing a Mobile Platform Numerous factors influence the choice of mobile platform for your app. Here are some key considerations: Target Audience: Identify your target audience and their preferred mobile platforms. If your app is primarily targeting iOS users, developing a native iOS app would be ideal. Conversely, if your target audience is global and includes Android users, a cross-platform approach might be more suitable. App Functionality and Features: Consider the specific features and functionalities your app requires. If your app needs to access device-specific hardware or offer complex user interactions, native app development may be necessary. For simpler apps, cross-platform or hybrid approaches might be sufficient. Budget: Mobile app development costs vary depending on the platform, development approach, and complexity of the app. Native app development is generally more expensive, while cross-platform and hybrid approaches are often more cost-effective. Time to Market: If you need to launch your app quickly, cross-platform development can expedite the process. Native app development typically takes longer due to platform-specific development efforts. User Experience (UX): Prioritize the user experience you want to deliver. Native apps often provide the best UX, but cross-platform and hybrid apps have made significant strides in improving their UI/UX capabilities. Maintenance and Updates: Consider the ongoing maintenance and update requirements for your app. Native apps may require more effort to maintain due to platform-specific changes. Cross-platform apps may have updates more frequently. App Store Policies: Familiarize yourself with the app store policies and guidelines for each platform. Ensure your app adheres to these regulations to avoid rejection or delays in app approval. Future Considerations: Plan for the future growth and evolution of your app. Consider a platform that can accommodate your app’s expanding features and scalability needs. How to Choose a Mobile App Development Company Once you’ve selected the right mobile platform, the next step is to choose a reputable mobile app development company. Consider the following factors when making your decision: Experience and Expertise: Evaluate the company’s experience and expertise in developing apps for your chosen platform. Verify their portfolio of successful projects and client testimonials. Communication and Collaboration: Ensure open and transparent communication with the development team. Establish clear project goals, timelines, and expectations. Development Methodology: Understand the company’s development methodology and their adherence to quality assurance practices. Cost Transparency: Request a detailed breakdown of project costs, including development fees, maintenance, and potential additional expenses. Android vs. iOS App Development Android and iOS are two major players in the smartphone market. In terms of the market share, Android outdoes iOS, as the former has a larger number of people using an Android phone. A Statista report reveals that about 71.1% of people use an Android phone, while around 19% of the world’s population use the iOS operating system. According to recent studies, people in high-income countries including the United States, Japan, Singapore, and Canada use Apple phones, while in poor or developing countries, the use of Android phones is more prevalent. Software engineers often find themselves confused when it comes to choosing between Android and iOS app development. Not only are the two systems poles apart on the development level but also in terms of design and marketing strategy. Conclusion There are hundreds of platforms for mobile app development, but choosing the right mobile platform and development partner is key to the success of your mobile app. By carefully evaluating your target audience, app requirements, budget, and future goals, you can make an informed decision that aligns with your business objectives. Remember, the right platform and development team will transform your app idea into a reality, empowering your business to reach new heights of success. Statistics report that cloud computing is at an all-time high and is expected to grow exponentially throughout the years. But growing demands mean utilizing expensive cloud tools, so cloud cost optimization is very much needed. The market value of cloud computing market was valued at USD 587.7 billion in 2023, projected to grow to $676.29 billion by the end of 2024, and is estimated to expand to $2,291.59 billion by 2032. As these numbers show the demand for cloud operation, adhering to these requirements also means a heavy cloud bill. Cloud Cost Optimization In order to grow your business, you need to know which cost-effective cloud resources need to be allocated to which department. Cloud cost optimization ensures just that. With the right resources working on different workloads and applications, you are able to balance costs, performance, and security requirements that ensure that your cloud investments are working appropriately and optimally. Each workload in a cloud deployment is unique, with evolving requirements over time. To optimize cloud costs, it’s important to establish performance benchmarks for each workload, utilizing domain expertise and real-time operational data. The goal of optimization is to lower costs while maintaining the required performance levels. So, what best practices can we use to bring down the cost? Top 5 Cloud Cost Optimization Best Practices 1. Assess and Track Cloud Usage Cloud cost assessment is the cornerstone of successful cost management. Start by carefully tracking and analyzing your cloud expenses. When you have enough insights into service usage, identify key cost drivers and observe user behavior trends. For industries with specific compliance and scalability needs—like healthcare—Healthcare Cloud Migration offers a closer look at how transitioning to the cloud can be both efficient and cost-effective. 2. Integrate Automation in Cloud Cost Management Strategies Automation takes your cloud services to another level. It is a powerful tool that can help you manage cloud costs efficiently. It can assist you in identifying cost-saving opportunities, streamline billing, and automate resource provisioning. Automation can also monitor resource usage, detecting underutilized resources that can be repurposed or terminated. 3. Employ the Latest Cloud Cost Optimization Tools Utilizing cost control tools that offer insights into usage patterns, establish budget limits, and highlight opportunities for improvement. These tools are designed to assist businesses in monitoring expenses, identifying inefficiencies, and implementing cost-saving strategies. 4. Strategize for Cost Optimization When you integrate cost optimization strategies, after utilizing the insights you get from monitoring the systems, you can implement discounts, identify spot instances, and scale down from adding unused services. These strategies will enable you to assess your company’s expenses, identify areas of waste and inefficiency, simplify processes, and automate tasks whenever possible. 5. Cloud Cost Forecasting for Cost Enhancement If you're just starting out with cloud services, then cloud forecasting can help you optimize costs from the beginning. It offers valuable insights into future expenses, enabling more precise budgeting and planning. This helps prevent unexpected costs and highlights opportunities for savings. Make Your Business Better with Cloud Cost Management Cloud cost optimization enhances business efficiency by reducing waste, streamlining processes, and automating tasks. It enables more accurate budgeting, prevents unexpected expenses, and uncovers cost-saving opportunities. This leads to smarter resource management and improved financial performance. Partner up with Arpatech and let's work on your business’ cloud cost optimization today! Now that you are done with your e-commerce website and looking forward to evaluate yourself and the efficiency of your website we bring you some of the easy to use tools that you can apply on your website. There is no harm in running periodic tests on your website as this helps in gauging your site’s performance and your customers’ experience. The best part of these easy to use tools…..most of them are completely free. These tools are good when it comes to testing your customer behavior and helps you measure your website’s speed, browser compatibility, and search-engine-optimization performance. Usability Testing 1) Concept Feedback: Visit their online portal, submit your website, landing page or even the mockup. The tool helps you get expert feedback from design, usability, and strategy professionals. This comes absolutely free and you can also have feedback from the community, helping you improve your webstore. 2) Google Analytics Content Experiments: One of the most useful tool in the free kit, Experiments helps you understand how well different versions of your page work in getting your visitors to accomplish specific goals. You can easily test up to 5 unique variations of a page with separate URLs to check which one drives more conversions. The test comes free with a Google Analytics account. 3) Click Heat: An open source and free of charge heat map, Click Heat helps you measure number of clicks on an HTML page. The application also helps in showing hot and cold click zones. 4) Crazy Egg: Do you want to know where are your visitors clicking on your website? Crazy Egg features a heat map for clicks, a scroll map that displays how far down visitors scroll (helps you understand bounce rate), and a tool to distinguish clicks by referral sources. 5) Five Second Test: Here is a tip, if you are worried about your user experience instead of asking a designer ask the end user. See what users can recall about your design in just five seconds. Figure this not and you can ensure that your message is being communicated as effectively as possible. You can further expand by asking users to answer a certain set of questions about your website. Test like the Feedback Army can help you with this. 6) Silverback: A Mac-based usability testing tool, this allows you capture screen activity, make noteworthy moments within a session, allows you to record usability testing sessions, and set tasks. 7) UserTesting.com: You can now watch videos of visitors using your website, receive written answers and ask follow-up questions with the help of UserTesting.com. The on-demand usability testing helps you create your tests with one of the customizable templates. 8) Feng-GUI: The Feng-GUI provides you attention analysis. The test also simulates human vision during the first five seconds of exposure to your site visuals, and predicts what a real human would be most likely to look at. 9) Unbounce: What else does a website owner want more than visitors staying for long on his website. This A/B framework with a single click maneuver allows you to test your campaigns and learn about customers’ preference on different content, offers and ideas. 10) Optimizely: Now learn about your customer visitor segments and optimize your conversion funnel. Track engagement, clicks, conversions and sign-ups through multiple pages with A/B and multivariate testing. 11) Spur: This is the easiest and the most fun way to critique web designs. With a simple URL paste or an image upload you’ll be able to use seven different tools to help find what’s working and what isn’t. Performance Testing 1) Monitor.Us: Now with the help of this you can view your entire web and cloud system, all from your control panel. Have a look at your applications, databases, site availability, and response time – plus server and network health. 2) Google PageSpeed Insights: PageSpeed Insights analyzes the content of a web page, then generates suggestions to make that page faster. 3) Browsera: Learn all about your cross-browser layout differences and scripting errors on your site. The features help you crawl and test all of your pages. You can also collect JavaScript errors from each browser and have it analyzed. 4) BrowserStack: Now you can test your site on real time browsers. This also includes smartphone and tablet emulators, helping you test your website on a large range of devices. The test also uses a wide range of developer tools along with automated testing. 5) Perfecto Mobile: Worried about exclusive mobile handset experience? Now test your website on each handset and ensure optimal compatibility along with application and all additional services. Perfecto Mobile allows you to access real mobile handsets and tablets connected to live mobile networks spread in different geo-locations. 6) Browsershots: A free open-source online web application, Browsershots takes screenshots of your site in various operating systems. This helps in learning about websites’ browser compatibility in one place. 7) Cross Browser Testing: Cross Browser Testing makes you test your website in AJAX, HTML forms, JavaScript, and Flash in numerous browser and operating system. The application brings you instant results from dozens of browsers. 8) W3C MobileOK Checker: The checker initiates various tests on your web page to evaluate its mobile-friendliness. It assesses basic usability, efficiency, and interoperability, based on the WS3 Mobile Web Best Practices. 9) Xenu Link Sleuth: Imagine having broken links on your website that you are unaware of? This effects the credibility of you webstore and pushes your website down on Google ranking. The test is for such broken links. The verification is carried on links, images, frames, plug-ins, and more. It displays a continuously updated list of URLs that you can sort by different criteria. 10) SEOmoz: The mother of all tools, the SEOmoz brings you a collection of tools to test your webstore SEO health. With a crawl test, test for broken links, analyze keywords, and much more you are helped in accessibility issues and tracking rankings to ensure your optimal performance. 11) Link Research Tools: This is also a set of tools that can help you test your site. You can run a Link Detox to analyze all links on your website and get alerted about suspicious ones. Find links to dead pages on a domain, as well as the strongest sub-pages and sub-folders of a domain. We hope that the tools will come useful and will help you gauge your site performance and help build a better user experience and improved functionality. Keep visiting us for more on e-commerce management and learn all the latest that is there in the market. Till then Ciao guys. More than 200,000 companies are using Magento e-Commerce platform for their businesses. Magento is one of the most powerful and cost efficient platform which empowers brands and businesses from B2C to B2B. Magento recently upgraded from version 1 to 2. As a hot topic of discussion there are few questions in the mind of users. 1) What should I know before the move? 2) When should I go for its upgrade? 3) Is it going to be trouble-free or troublesome? 1)What should I know before the move? If you want to stay updated with the latest e-Commerce trends, you don’t want your challengers and competitors to have an upper hand on you, so upgrading will be the right thing to do. Flexibility of Magento 2 Magento 2.x is enclosed with a new structure that takes flexibility and scalability to a whole new level. It offers a range of flexible tools that are well equipped to support your SEO, Catalogue management and advanced marketing tactics. With a perfect combination of high code coupling, developers can conveniently create features including checkout, CRM, CMS, sales and much more. You can enable or disable any component while keeping the code-base tidy. Scalability of Magento 2 The pages of Magento 2.x load even faster than before (<1.5 seconds per page) on first view and (<0.75 seconds per page) once it’s cached in the memory. The 2 page checkout process is relatively faster and easier to manage. Magento 2.x also has a scale to help you handle your busiest days. Magento 2.x supports incredibly high rate of 3.5 million page views and more than 250,000 orders per hour. You can handle relatively large amount of data for Customers, Order Management System and catalogue, without any hassle. Magento 2 Enhanced user experience The unique design and engaging experience gives it a competitive over its rest of the e-Commerce competitors. The default theme is responsive on every element and gives user a pleasure of experience. Magento 2.x enables personalization experiences, on site behavior or other data influence content, promotion and product recommendation, also with the enhanced search feature, the user can easily find the related products in no time. Fast Checkout The two step checkout process is fast. It allows user to speed up the checkout process thus performing their tasks efficiently. It also includes one click user profile creation without interrupting the current transaction. 2)When should I go for an upgrade? It is cost efficient and easier to upgrade core Magento Software and extensions with Magento 2.x. You will be provided all the necessary information about compatibility of upgrades. With the support of new standalone installer, installing Magento 2.x platform will be much faster. This tool will check for all the prerequisites before starting the installation. The upgrading process depends on your E-store condition and flexibility. If you are using any e-Commerce platform or older version of Magento that is now a stack of bugs, errors and bubbled with few modifications, scalability and flexibility, then the time has come for you to grab the latest update of Magento 2. 3)Is it going to be trouble-free or troublesome? Migrating from one platform to another always requires a team commitment. The tool is complete but it may require some work and expertise to make your store better than before. For now, Most of the themes and Plugins cannot be transferred so you will have to make your own customizations which might be hectic but eventually everyone has to move on. The world of Web development is a rapidly changing domain. 2016 brought some of the hottest trends which you should be aware of if you are part of the web development community. You should follow these trends while designing and developing your website to maintain your position in the web market throughout this year. With new frameworks, evolving technologies and new layouts everything plays a critical role in attracting customers to your web page. Let’s look at some of the hottest trends…. 1) IOT (Internet of Things) Much of the development in the app world is the result of IOT and it continued to grow enormously from 2015. It is expected to continue this growth till 2019 as it has played a big role in faster data transfer rate. IOT enables this process by linking smart objects while it is expected that with time a lot of advanced solutions will be innovated for the purpose of communicating with gadgets. 2) Motion User Interface Last year’s emerging trend was Motion User Interface and it is expected to stay for long. The SASS library is one of the three main foundations for Apps by Zurb and it is used for creating animations quickly. Through its help it becomes a less complicated process to give a transitional smooth look to the apps. 3) Advanced Responsive Design The web market is changing due to all the new technologically advanced platforms which will be using it. 2016 trends are considered to set the stage for next few years. There are several advanced devices, cohesive wearable gadgets, screens and advanced designed frameworks which are in huge demand and are considered to show a growing trend. 4) Upsurge in Real-time The Real-time analytics are widely being used by mobile and desktop apps for activities such as live streaming etc. So the whole year is anticipated to witness an increased in its usage. 5) Navigation design for Full-screen Usually for the sites which are browsed for mobile devices, the developers and designers prefer to use full-screen navigations. The increased use of this trend is observed as it enables users to jump to full-screen resolutions in an auxiliary natural way. 6) Adds blockers on the sites A huge amount of money the website owners are losing due to advertisement blocking plugins. Many techniques have been developed which enable websites owners to avoid these growing effects. These new techniques happen to reduce the effects of advertisement blocking. 7) Containers Usage To run, create and test an app swiftly Docker, a container service is used by the developers. A lot of advanced changes are making containers go huge this year. Docker is believed to evolve and gain more features and security. 8) Ultimate Browser Power Throughout the past few years some major developments have been observed in the trend of things which the user can do with the browser. JavaScript is acknowledged as the browser’s de-facto language, making the browser more powerful than ever before. It stands out as the most powerful language for the year 2016. 9) IDEs These days more people are turning towards cloud based versions of IDEs instead of using the traditional development environment. The key factors of IDE include fast accessibility and flexibility which is provided full-time even if you are not using it. 10) Enhanced Security As users add different apps to their mobile devices the higher the risk becomes of the device getting prone to security breaches. The increase in the efforts to make apps extra secured and more safe is going to be a vivid trend of 2016. 11) The standard UX Bots Popular apps in the web market like Facebook, Wechat etc. are using Bots and making the life of their users easier by providing easy use of their apps. 12) Apps Foundation A single page app framework which is constructed through AngularJs and the flexbox grid framework. This framework empowers developers to develop quick yet easy and responsive web app creation. This year a lot of companies are believed to use it. Final Thought To make your website more tech savvy you can use these trends and increase the quality of your webpage. Many websites today are implementing such strategies to provide a competitive edge in the every growing web market. One of the most important aspects of running any online store is keeping a proper backup of everything so that in case anything goes wrong you can restore it with ease anytime. You can also adjust settings and edit your site without worrying that your web page will go offline. So as you can see, maintaining a backup of the site is pretty important. The functionality is built-in Magento 2 to ensure that the backup is created of the data and then it can restore all the codes, media and also your site's database whenever you require it. At times it is a critical task to restore backups. There are many options available if you desire to make a back up of your site's data. Through this article, we will guide you in steps how you can do the process of backing your data and then how you can restore it by the use of CLI commands. So let's get started! Before We Begin Before going further, you must check that you have installed a working Magento 2 beforehand on your system. Now access the installation of your Magento 2 via the shell and you have to use SSH. First login via SSH, after this go to the app which is present at the root folder, bin, var folders are placed of Magento 2. Backup/Snapshot - How to do it Once you are done with the step of changing Magento 2 directory to the root of it, install and run the command below: php bin/magento setup:backup -v --code --media --db It will create three types of backups which include: Code Media, for example, the pictures or videos, etc. The data's Database which is of high necessity for your store. Note that during the backup of your store, as it will change the mode of your site to maintenance mode. During the back up the live site of your store will not be available during backup and all of the backups will be stored in the var/backups As for the output, it will look similar to this: a. Here if you only want to backup media, then just omit all the other attributes from the above command and enter the following one instead of the first one: php bin/magento setup:backup --media The Magento 2's media backup is around 153 MB. b. Otherwise, if you want to only backup database, then go to the shell and there write the mentioned command in where you have started to work. php bin/magento setup:backup --db The Magento 2's database backup is around 14 MB. c. Finally, in orde to backup the code base only, the following command will do the job: php bin/magento setup:backup --code The Magento 2's code base backup is around 123 MB. Determining the Backup Files php bin/magento info:backups:list This will provide output along with a listed files which are backed up. It will look something like this: During the whole maintenance mode, Magento 2 system successfully made your site's backups and those three backups are listed here. Once the list is generated, you will now determine the backup files. To do this, write the command: ls -lt var/backups/ It will show all the files that are now in this folder of your Magento 2 system along with their all number of the files. This step is done by us to make it easy for ourselves to view the files that we want to rollback, which is the next section of this tutorial. After you have entered the command the result looks similar to this: Rollback/Restore - How to do it Once you have made a backup of your files you can now restore or rollback. Remember whenever you are doing the rolling back process, this means the system will delete the specific files and also database beforehand the system does restores. For this follow the following ... 1. You first need to login via SSH (if you haven’t logged in). 2. After logging in, navigate to the var/backups folder where you have all the backup files in your Magento installations. In this step, you have to be sure about the DB i.e the .sql file being in the right folder. 3. Now enter the command on the shell to restore the files, the command will look something like this: php bin/magento setup:rollback [-c|--code-file=”<name>”][-m|--media-file=”<name>”][-d|--db-file=”<name>”] a. Here, if you only want to restore the database files, then you can enter the following command in the shell. For instance: php bin/magento setup:rollback -d 1470820565_db.sql b. If you only want to restore the media files, then you can enter the mentioned command in the shell. For instance: php bin/magento setup:rollback -m 1470820565_filesystem_media.tgz c. Lastly, if you only want to restore the code files, then you can enter the following command in the shell. For example: php bin/magento setup:rollback -c 1470820565_filesystem_code.tgz Note: You will change the file name on the command line after -d or -c or -m In this case, the command will be as shown if all three files are being rolled back. php bin/magento setup:rollback -c 1470820565_filesystem_code.tgz -m 1470820565_filesystem_media.tgz -d 1470820565_db .sql Once you have entered the above mentioned commands, you will receive an alert from your system about the confirmation regarding the files you selected that do you want to restore these or not. You have to press just Y in case you want to continue, otherwise to cancel the process or if you want to make changes to anything by navigating back, then you should just enter N. Once you have entered the command for the file that you want to rollback or all three and pressed Y then the output will be like (in your case it may be a bit different): In case you receive the segmentation fault while confirmation, you can very easily fix that by using the following command. But the command only runs if you have PHP 7. We think it is a good practice to work on new technologies as soon as they are introduced in the market. The command is... ulimit -s 65536 Or you can also store this in .bashrc file on your system if you don't want to enter the command. Congratulations! You have now successfully made a backup and restored your files. Now there are some final things to do to make changes effective. Below are some commands that you have to enter to complete the process. Always flush and clean the caches. The commands are... php bin/magento maintenance:disable rm -fr var/cache/* var/di/* var/geration/* var/page_cache/* sudo chmod -R 777 var php bin/magento cache:flush php bin/magento setup:static-content:deploy php bin/magento setup:upgrade sudo chmod -R 777 var Scheduling the Backup In order to schedule the backup of your store, you may be required to set up the cron job. Run the following command to do this... */1****php/var/www/html/bin/magento cron:run Once you have entered this command, you have now successfully created a cron schedule in the Magento 2 database. Also, you can create a daily, weekly or monthly backup using the frontend of the admin panel of the Magento 2 system. To do so, go to Stores >> Configuration >> Advanced >> System. Now select the Scheduled Backup Settings and enter all the required fields and set up the schedule. Conclusion By giving the step by step process, we have made this job easier for you so that you are now able to backup your store easily while restoring it will be like a piece of cake. Although we recommend that you always maintain an up to date backup of your store, this will help you to avoid any bad circumstances from happening. As the saying goes, “A Klingon warrior is always prepared to fight” so be like a true fighter and be prepared beforehand to fight by having your backups in place. You should hope for the best, yet prepare for the worst. If you are having issues still? We recommend that you ask us or give your feedback in the comments section present below. Do share! Give it a Like! Follow us! ;) No one is free from the influx of content marketing in our digital-obsessed world — even in the B2B realm. Which is why it is, as a B2B company, one of the simplest ways to generate leads. Although website traffic is a popular performance metric for B2B marketers, their content efforts are primarily responsible for reporting on marketing-qualified leads and marketing-assisted sales. B2B customers are smarter than ever before and are more resourceful. They have everything they need to make an informed decision at their fingertips. But how exactly do you use marketing content to generate leads? It's not as easy as writing a few short blog posts and waiting to get the phone calls in. Content marketing is not just a play on brand awareness. It has the power to grow businesses. This blog explains how to make your content a lead-generating tool and see more successful results. Work on Email Campaign Your emails must speak their recipient's language, whether that means stuffing your content with academic prose or writing in an informal style featuring slang, emojis, and GIFs. Your email's central content needn't change; it's the delivery mechanism— based on the preferences of the readers— that makes all the difference. If you are creating heavier pieces of content, such as e-books, case studies and whitepapers, so your automatic emails are a great way to promote more engagement with your content. Through tracking the interaction between your audience and those emails, you have an efficient way of both sharing material and qualifying leads. You always include CTAs in your emails, of course. Nonetheless, we're talking about taking it a step further and placing a CTA button right under your signature at the end of your regular work emails. It can link up to your new content piece or to your main landing page. Quora Engagement This platform for questions and answers is gaining rapid popularity Quora has in fact more than 100 million active users today. You can search for questions relevant to your specific niche or interest via the full-text search feature. You can get heard by your target audiences who use the website by regularly providing helpful and informative insights. This strategy is great for building awareness about the brand. If you have created content that specifically addresses a Quora query, then you can include a link to it in your response If the content is sufficiently relevant, and the issue gets a considerable amount of traffic, you can expect to see a few new visitors seep in. Produce Interactive Content Visual content these days is a huge trend and what better means of keeping up with the fad than doing something even more innovative? Interactive infographics are seldom, mainly because they're difficult to create and expensive. Rejoicing prospects and customers is a key component for any marketing strategy's success Your brand stands out with an exciting and engaging digital infographic. So, when brand recall is high, brand awareness goes through the roof. Henceforth, you are able to generate leads. You can also create gated videos. These videos can retain users’ which has become increasingly harder. Not everyone has enough attention spans to read through long articles. Short videos are considerably easier for users to consume. Create an entertaining video that can help deal with the problems and challenges of your target audience. This technique will build an impression and thus results in generating leads. Offer Free Webinars Webinars are a low-cost opportunity to showcase your experience and know-how and educate your prospects. Choose a topic of discussion that your prospective customers are actually interested in — it could include developments in news, your industry in general, your business and more. If you have problems coming up with a proper topic for your webinar, consider the common questions you hear during the webinar and answer one of them in-depth. Landing Pages Content Your entire website is one giant piece of content when you think about it, serving to engage and inform your audience through images video and text. Although it may seem a bit unnecessary, there are a few ways in which a landing page can serve as a tool for lead generation. The most effective way is to build a landing page that will host forms of your gated content. Make your gated content landing pages readable and easy to navigate, and make it easy to find calls to action. A pricing page or a “Contact Us" page is another way to use the landing pages as a lead generation tool. Such pages also need to be very well designed, easy to use and understand, with clear and concise CTAs included. Arpatech: Bartek, you are a Front End Developer and specialized in Magento. How did you start your career? How long have you been involved with Magento? What was the reason for choosing this eCommerce platform? Bartek Igielski: I started doing Web related stuff in 2008, when I was 16, by doing a simple HTML and CSS page for my family company. Then was few other pages, I was in technical college with IT specialization, so at all a spend a lot of time on solving various issues, working on my web and design skills (yeah, I though about being a designer), getting more and more familiar with programing, often even replacing teachers on their duty :) At second class we have apprenticeships and I spend this time working in my friends company as a guy assembling systems of industrial automation. They were pleased with my job, so I spend whole vacations working. After third class, I tried to catch some freelance web project, but I failed and spend most of the time in the same company. After the fourth year of school and graduation, I have long vacations (4 months) before college start and decided to work in the same company, but... things changed. I started working as a guy in the office, who cares about various IT things. But then raised up a great project - we are going to create SCADA (Supervisory Control And Data Acquisition) based on web technologies and I’m going to be a Web Designer / Developer here! That’s how I created my first RWD project (it still works!) in 2012. Right after that, I start my quick episode with college. I don’t like learning not necessary things, so after a year I quit, so probably I’m never gonna say “Trust me, I’m an engineer” :) In 2013 I started my first full-time job as a front-end developer. I was working on Rails-based web apps and it was my first time with eCommerce solutions, on SpreeCommerce. After 8 months I was forced to change this job, because my boss wasn’t a solid guy. And that’s how in April 2014 I started my work at Snowdog - without PHP, JavaScript or even Magento experience. So unfortunately I didn’t choose Magento, Magento choose me :) Arpatech: You have worked on several different projects, you are master-mind of Frontools and SASS based Blank theme projects. Can you please tell our readers more about it? Bartek Igielski: Let me give you a quick history lesson - Magento 1.0 was released in 2008. In 2014 they released 1.9.1 with “RWD” theme, which refreshes state of front-end in Magento, but we thread this just as a temporary solution before releasing Magento 2. Magento 2 was released at the end of 2015, but unfortunately, it doesn't fit needs of front-end developers. That’s why we, as a Snowdog, decided to change this on our own, but also release as a free open source modules ready to use. Frontools are set of tools for the front-end developer to based on Gulp.js to simplify and speed up development. SASS Blank theme is a translated form LESS version of build-in Magento 2 “Blank” theme, with some necessary modifications and simplifications. Our actions were noticed by community and Magento executives. They announced us as a community leader of “Moving from LESS to SASS” project and now we are working together trying to find out a way to improve the state of front-end of Magento 2. Arpatech: What was your motivation for choosing a career as a Front-end Developer? Bartek Igielski: I just like working on the edge of technology and design, being a link between two worlds. A few years ago I found a Saul Bass quote that really well describes my relationship with front-end “I want to make beautiful things, even if nobody cares.”. Arpatech: Bartek, you have vast expertise in front end development. Please share some tips to the readers regarding front-end development and choosing a career as a front-end developer. Bartek Igielski: Front-end technologies are the one of evolving fastest in IT world. Every year we have a new JavaScript framework, styles processor, some new features in browsers, new screen sizes, new input types… it’s just evolving. If you like constant learning and care at least a bit about design, it’s right place for you. BTW. JavaScript is future, now even NASA is using it to monitor space missions! Arpatech: What is the best project you are engaged with or have done in your entire career? What are the challenges you faced and how you tackled them? Bartek Igielski: It’s hard to choose one project. Creating software processes, so everything evolves over time. I’m still believing that *this* project wait for me somewhere in future. Arpatech: You have giving presentations in Magento Meet-ups and conferences. Recently you presented on “Moving Magento 2 from LESS to SASS” in Meet Magento 2016. Can you please highlight the key points? Why is SASS more effective than LESS? Bartek Igielski: SASS is way more strict language, it will not let you hurt yourself or your teammates writing weird code. Things like the global scope of variables, ability to chain mixins or lack of proper conditional statements and loops hurt. It’s hard, to sum up this topic in few words, so I’d advise you to watch the recording of my talk at #mm16de. Arpatech: You are engaged with Magento conferences and meet-ups. What do you gain from these conferences? DO you recommend to attend such conferences? Will you be willing to attend more conferences in the future? Bartek Igielski: I like sharing my ideas and knowledge. Preparing to talks is always the best way to push yourself to learn new things. Attending at conferences is always a great thing, every time you will learn something new or heard for the first time about a cool solution for your problems or just stay updated with current state of Magento development. It’s also a great place to just talk with other devs. For sure, conferences are almost always great :) Arpatech: You will be presenting on “Improving State of Magento 2 Frontend” in the upcoming Meet Magento 2016. Can you please highlight some key points for the readers? Please tell readers about the best practices involved when working as a front end developer? Please give some suggestions to newbies on front end development. Bartek Igielski: I’ll be talking mostly about templates and styles part. We are working on establishing the solid naming methodology because currently is one of most frustrating part of working with styles in Magento, but it’s normal, naming things is always hard. Advice for newbies? Remember that somebody will read and edit your code in future, so please try to not make them cry :) Arpatech: You have a goodwill in Magento Community, your contributions have made improvements in Magento World. Who are your inspirations in Magento community? Please tell some names to the readers who they can follow to learn more about Magento front and back end development. Bartek Igielski: For me, real open source spirit in Magento Community is still in early phase of development, we can easily count all useful modules on our hand's fingers, companies still decide to build everything just for own purposes instead of sharing solutions. State of Magento front-end never was so great, it’s always behind the current state of technology, mostly because of long development cycles, not so frequent releases and complexity of the whole system. That’s why I always try to take inspirations from outside, limiting just to own, well known “neighborhood” isn’t so good when are you looking for improvements. Arpatech: Apart from work, you are a technology freak and also likes music. Which technology fascinates you the most? What is the genre you prefer in music? What do you do in your free time? Bartek Igielski: Nowadays everything is tech, I just love to track how things are designed and build. I’m in love with Elon Musk ideas - electric self-driving cars, self-sustaining housing, solar power and of course Mars colonization plans (I’d love to live here), this guy is amazing. Mostly I’m listening to metal-related genres like power metal, symphonic metal, heavy metal (I’m in love with Powerwolf), but right now I’m also making a quick flashback with trance music. It changes over years so much and I’m just stay with good old classics, like old episodes of Trance Around the World and the State of Trance. In free time I’m an XC bike rider (still thinking about switching to Enduro...), craft beer drinker, gamer and just a lazy man :) We are living in the digital age where the technology is touching the skies. We all are surrounded by technologies. And if we talk about Artificial Intelligence, it has a huge impact on most of the portions of our life in the form of chat-bots, smart devices and of course self-driving cars! AI is a buzzword for quite a while now and is used in multiple fields, and Digital Marketing is no exception. Earlier, Using AI was considered a luxury and hence not everyone was integrating the technology. But now, we are witnessing an eminent shift in how marketers are approaching it to supercharge their marketing efforts. Since it does not only help in shaping consumer’s buying behavior but also assist them in making better purchase decisions. Artificial Intelligence is thought to be the future of computing. Keeping that in view, let's take a look at the top AI trends taking place in the world of digital marketing. AI is your new Content Writer Artificial Intelligence is making marketer’s life easier to the extent that it can produce content itself. Hard to believe right? But a machine can actually write and can produce content from scratch with human assistance. Not only does it help save a lot of time but also the money spent on the resources. Platforms like Articoolo and Quill are already providing this facility and making it easier to create content on the fly using AI. By using templates and fill-in-the-blanks to enter data and keywords, a well-drafted content is obtained giving the effect that a human wrote it. In fact, you might already have read the content which AI generated since BBC, New York Times and Forbes are already making use of this technology. Email Marketing with AI Makeover AI isn’t limited to content creation but the technology has reached the level that it can also assist marketers in grading their email marketing efforts. AI can help marketers in optimizing their campaigns which results in leveraging revenue potential. Where A/B testing takes time and contains a margin of error, AI generates a fully optimized experience for each customer based on preferences and user behaviors. Tools like Boomtrain, Phrasee, and Persado make use of AI for the purpose of personalized email marketing. It optimizes every piece of email marketing process from the optimal time of the day to send each lead in databases. With the innovation of email marketing solutions, week-long A/B testing is all set to say farewell. AI-Powered Content Curation Along with generating content, AI can also curate it. Curation allows you to engage visitors better on certain websites by recommending them the content relevant for them. AI-powered tools like Curata, Scoop.it, Quuu are there for this purpose. This technology makes personalized content recommendations that the user may find intriguing. Think of the last time you made a purchase on Amazon, you constantly see a recommendation like ‘you may also buy’ or remember the last time you watched Netflix and it recommended you the shows of your interest? The same method is used in blog content & personalizing site messaging more widely. It is also quite beneficial for subscription businesses where the more people use the service, the better algorithm is obtained. Therefore, resulting in better recommendations. Voice Enabled Search Assistants Voice search is another rising trend due to which it has become necessary for the marketers to optimize searches for natural long-tailed queries. Google revealed in its blog that 70% of the searches are received in natural and conversational language and do not include those typical keywords. For this purpose, Google’s Algorithm, RankBrain was created to get the most relevant results. This Machine Learning Algorithm interprets requested voice searches and with the help of AI presents the user with the best possible results. Amazon’s Echo, Apple’s Siri & Microsoft’s Cortana are the prime examples that are making use of this innovation. Any marketer who knows how to take benefit from voice searches will be able to boom their organic traffic considerably. Simulated ChatBots/Assistant Bots Chatbots are assistant bots that make automating responses to frequently asked questions by potential buyers easier by providing them with a way to find the product or service they are looking for. Let’s face it, every one of us hates to wait too long for a response from any brand or website we are on. Thence Chat-bots are there to rescue. AI integrated chat-bots have the ability to answer open questions. Through algorithms like Natural Language Processing (NLP), the most apt response to any query is provided. Other than that, they can serve 24/7 and respond to multiple queries from different customers simultaneously. A cherry on the top, they do not require a huge budget. In fact, through Facebook Bots, Wit.ai bot and QnA Maker Bots; you can train a bot and make them learn from continuous user interactions. Another great stuff that can be done with Chat-bots is determining the intentions of the user by building the knowledge-base or putting up the variety of phrases that a user might have the best chance of asking, therefore, making the bot proactive. Predictive Analysis shines brighter with AI As the name suggests, it predicts the probability of future prospects which are gained through statistical algorithms, data, and machine learning techniques. It allows marketers to extract information & predict purchase trends and user behavior patterns. With the help of these models, the probability of a specific prospect becoming a client can be predicted. Apart from this, some other aspects can also be predicted for instance which clients will make more than one purchase or the quoted price necessary to make a conversion. Apart from leveraging sales it also saves time and resources. Using Predictive analytics can also help in creating impactful marketing campaigns based on the buying behavior of customers. Wrap Up Artificial Intelligence is all set to save both time and money of the marketers. It helps facilitate better customer experience. We are all a part of this digital world where Marketing is a rapidly growing field. Hence, a marketer necessarily needs to power their marketing efforts with AI in order to be successful in his respective field. It is only a matter of a few months that Marketing space will be considered inoperative without the implementation of Artificial Intelligence into it. E-commerce has surely turned out to be the next big thing on the internet as people have made billions of dollars through this platform. The most popular framework that comes in mind while talking about e-commerce platforms is Magento. It is the entire e-commerce business solution in a box. It is the most flexible e-commerce platform. Magento has worldwide popularity because of its functionality and strong community support. If the online merchants want to get the most from this flexible, feature-rich and powerful e-commerce platform, then they must need to install Magento plugins or extensions in their Magento Store to extend the functionality of it. Many e-commerce extensions and plugins are available on the internet but choosing the best one can be a difficult choice for an online business owner. To make it easier, we are listing down some awesome Magento extensions to install on your e-commerce website and enhance your online store’s functionality. These extensions will definitely help in providing greater advantages to the Magento store and assist your business flourish and grow in the present competitive market. 1: One Step Checkout Extension for Magento Magento One Step Checkout Extension is one of the best and essential extension for Magento. It allows the user to simply sign-in and fill their carts. If the user has already filled out the payment details, the extension will work like magic. The extension makes all checkout steps to appear together on a single page. It supports 40+ payments method and Google Suggest to automatically fill the address. It also supports multiple languages and PayPal integration. The checkout extension can be modified according to the web store’s needs. 2: Creare SEO Creare SEO aims to help Magento store owner for optimal SEO performance. Adding this extension to your online store will helps in avoiding duplicate content and 404 error pages. The extension can also add a lot of features to your Magento website like HTML sitemap, 301 redirects for discontinued products, unique category headings, social media schema and many more. The ultimate aim of the Creare SEO extension is to make your store rank better in Google and by making small changes to the store’s configuration. 3: Blog Even on an e-commerce site, a Blog can be helpful in announcing promotions, news on upcoming products or even you can write some relevant content regarding the business. Magento Blog Extension works as a silent salesman for your online store and this would help in attracting visitors. Optimize the blog content from SEO perspective to get more visibility over the web. The extension offers regular blogging platform including RSS and many others. 4: Social Connect Magento Extension This extension adds social icons on the login page of your online store. Customers use these buttons to log in or get registered in the e-commerce store without going through the trouble of registration process and procedure by using their Google or Facebook accounts. This overall process has become a convenient way for the customers. The functionality will be available on creating an account page plus on the first step of your store’s checkout process. 5: Yotpo Yotpo has become one of the most widely used Magento extension because of its functionality. Shopping online may be convenient but there are people with reservation. Before purchasing the products, customers evaluate reviews or feedbacks of that particular item. Yotpo Magento extension provides the customers the facility to evaluate the product on the existing shopping site without looking for anywhere else. Conclusion The list doesn’t end here. There are many other useful Magento extensions helping to increase the online sales. But these top 5 Magento extension or plugins will be of great help in boosting your online business. Integrate them into your online shopping store and experience amazing results for your e-commerce business. Tech giant Google has revealed five flaws in Apple's iMessage software that could make its devices prone to attack. Researchers at the company said the susceptibility was so severe that the only way to salvage a beleaguered iPhone would be to erase all the data off it. They said another example could be used to replicate files off a device without requiring the owner to do anything to aid the hack. Apple issued repairs last week. However, the researchers said they had also highlighted a sixth problem to Apple, which had not been corrected in the update to its mobile operating system. Prof Alan Woodward, a cyber-security expert at the University of Surrey, commented: "That's quite unusual.” He said that that the reputation of the Google Zero team is such that it’s worth taking notice of. The Project Zero team was established in July 2014 to expose formerly undocumented cyber-vulnerabilities. It has previously alerted Microsoft, Facebook and Samsung, among others, to problems with their code. Apple's own notes about iOS 12.4 specify that the variable fault could give hackers a means to crash an app or perform commands of their own on recent iPhones, iPads and iPod Touches if they were able to determine it. Apple has not commented on this particular issue but has advised users to install the new version of iOS, which addresses Google's other detections as well as a further range of malfunctions and threats. "Keeping your software up to date is one of the most important things you can do to maintain your Apple product's security," it said in a statement. As per the study done by Adobe Analytics, usage of podcast mobile app has increased 60% since January 2018. The study says that the usage of the app is likely to grow even further as 45% of listeners plan to tune into more podcasts in the future. The study, which consisted of 193 million monthly exclusive visitors to U.S. mobile apps, discovered that 41% of podcast finding happens through online sources such as blogs and articles. According to the report, almost 72% of respondents notice podcast quality to be on the increase, with just 6% think that quality is declining. Nearly 52% of respondents said they listen to podcasts while working or traveling. According to the study, education, history, and documentary were found to be the four most popular genres, while video games were among the least popular. The majority—60%—of listeners said that only after hearing it on a podcast did they look up a service or product, with 25% reporting that they ended up making the purchase. Nevertheless, 58% of respondents said they avoided podcast ads. The podcast sector’s impetus raises the feasibility of podcast advertising to reach a mounting audience. And, since more data is on hand from diverse platforms like Spotify, advertisers have more targeting skills to help them get closer to the listeners that are almost certain to be interested in their products or services. Machine Learning and deep learning have gained a lot of popularity in recent years. Both are the subsets of artificial intelligence. Often, both the terms have been seen using interchangeably but both have a lot of differences. Examples of machine learning and deep learning are all around. It's how Netflix understands which show you're going to watch next, how Facebook recognizes whose face is in a picture, what makes self-driving cars a reality and a lot more. So, let us start with the basic enlightenment of both the terms What is Machine Learning and Deep Learning? So, AI is an all-encompassing term that originally erupted, followed by ML that thrived later, and finally, DL that is promising to scale AI's progress to another level. Machine learning is the best tool to analyze, comprehend and recognize data patterns so far. The main idea behind ML is that a computer is trained in a way to automate duties that are exhausting or complex to humans. It takes decisions with minimal human interference. Machine learning incorporates data to deliver an algorithm which can comprehend the connection between input and output. When the machine has fulfilled the learning, the value or class of the new data point can be predicted. On the other hand, deep learning uses different layers to learn from data. It is also often called machine learning as it copies the network of neurons in a brain. The learning phase in deep learning is completed through a neural network which is an architecture in which layers are piled on top of each other. Comparison Between Machine Learning and Deep Learning Since you have understood the basic definition of machine learning and deep learning, let us now dig deep into the differences between both of them. Data Dependencies We will start off with the major difference between the two algorithms which is the ‘performance’. Deep learning algorithms require a huge amount of data to understand completely hence if the data is small DL algorithms do not work rightly. While in machine learning their handcrafted rules prevail in this setting. Hardware Dependencies Among both the algorithms, deep learning severely depends on high-end machines as compared to traditional machine learning which can swiftly work on low-end machines. Consequently, deep learning requirement comprises GPUs which is a fundamental part of its working. Comparatively, Deep learning algorithms do a large amount of matrix multiplication operations. All of these operations can be proficiently optimized by means of a GPU because it is made for this purpose. Feature Engineering Feature Engineering is a method of placing domain knowledge into the development of feature extractors to lessen data complexity and make patterns more visible for learning algorithms to function. This method is tricky and costly in terms of time and expertise. In machine learning, most of the characteristics used need to be recognized by the specialist and then hand-coded as per domain and data type. While deep learning algorithms try to learn high-level features from data. This is a very unique component of deep learning and a significant step forward in traditional machine learning. Deep learning thus minimizes the task of developing a new feature extractor for every problem. Problem Solving Approach The traditional machine learning algorithm is generally needed to break a problem into different parts to solve them individually and combine them to get the result. In contrast, deep learning backs to solve the problem end-to-end, such as logistic issues. Let’s further explain it with an example. You are asked to detect multiple objects. In this task, we need to specify what the object is and where it is present in the picture. So, in the machine learning algorithm, this problem gets to divide into object detection and object recognition. First of all, we use the grabcut algorithm to skim through the picture and discover all possible items. Then, of all recognized objects, you would use an object recognition algorithm such as SVM with HOG to identify applicable objects. On the contrary, deep learning algorithm would perform the whole process end-to-end. Execution Time Deep Learning usually requires more time to train compared to machine learning. Because of the fact that there are so many parameters in a deep learning algorithm. On the other side, machine learning requires a lot less time to train, from a few seconds to a few hours. But if we talk about testing time, the turn is completely opposite. The deep learning algorithm requires a lot less time to operate. Whereas, if you compare it with the nearest neighbors (a type of machine learning algorithm), the test time improves by increasing the size of the data. Interpretability Interpretability is the main factor deep learning is still thought 10 times before its use in industry. For instance, an automated marking of a test is done. The scoring done is accurate and quite human-like. But it does not explain why such marks or score were given. You can find out later which nodes of the neural network were activated, but we don't understand what the neurons were intended to model and what these layers of neurons were doing together anyway. So, we fail to interpret the results. While in machine learning algorithms such as decision trees offer us all the details we look for as to why it chose what has been marked. so, it is particularly simple to interpret the reasoning behind them. Therefore, algorithms such as decision trees and linear/logistic regression are mainly used for interpretability in the industry. The world of web development is constantly evolving. All thanks to open-source and innovation, as soon as you learn one technology, a new one comes along. Because of its constantly evolving nature, it becomes quite challenging to stay up-to-date in the industry. Thankfully, web development blogs make it easy for anyone to stay up-to-date with the trending topics of today. We've gathered some of the finest web design and development blogs for you. Whether it's learning a fresh UX design application or finding someone to demonstrate the current trends, the internet is full of data on these and many other topics. Let’s take a look at the best 20 web development blogs 2019. 1. SitePoint SitePoint is a web-based online community of professionals. It is a learning center for programmers, product creators, developers, designers, entrepreneurs managed by top web professionals. You can learn about web design & development with SitePoint tutorials, courses, and books — HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, PHP, Mobile App Development, Responsive Web Design. 2. Scotch It is a web development blog that addresses everything about programming, development, web, as well as life. You can explore a huge variety of online courses, webinars, and tutorials. Also, you can take part in community coding challenges. It incorporates all kinds of the web- material for internet geeks. 3. CSS-Tricks CSS- Trick provides tips, tricks, and techniques of using Cascading Style Sheets. It covers articles on JavaScript, jQuery, Sass, WordPress and a lot more. Besides having education blogs, they also provide videos, code snippets, a job board which are the requirements of web persons. Chris Coyier and a team of swell people create, write and maintain CSS-Tricks*. 4. Smashing Magazine Since 2006, Smashing Magazine has been there and their blog's depth and breadth reflects it. You can discover high-quality content on more than 30 topics revolving around web design and development. For instance, HTML & CSS, UX &UI, Typography, Web Design and RWD, and more. Explore a collection of PDF, ePUB and Amazon Kindle in printed and eBooks. This is a phenomenal resource for developers who want to go deeper. 5. Codrops You'll discover a lot of helpful tutorials and code snippets on Codrops if you're a front-end developer or web designer. In addition, Codrops also addresses more general web design topics and how a web designer's role has developed over the years. It has the latest web trends and approaches, tutorials, articles, plugins as well as a handy CSS reference with all the important properties. 6. Design Shack It was initiated as a design blog and soon it joined all the top development blogs. You will also discover articles on accessibility, graphics, and layouts in addition to inspirational web design graphics. The Blog also addresses a wide range of topics, including UX design, CSS, and freelancing. For anyone working in the field of web design, it is simply a go-to. If you're a web designer in quest of an excellent blog design, this is the best spot for you. 7. A List Apart It is among the oldest website development blogs. It was initiated as a mailing list back in 1997 but a year later, it shifted towards the blog and ever since it is there. Even though it looks vintage, the architecture of information is 100% contemporary. The site has a minimalist UI despite all the years of content and is extremely easy to navigate. You can find content, design and user experience articles, as well as free-to-use code samples. 8. Webdesigner Depot This platform has gone through many breakthroughs in the web design and web development business. It provides a huge range of topics. Also, you get to learn about design, user experience, accessibility, design, freelancing, etc. Because it has grown rapidly to become one of the most famous design blogs on the web, you can discover almost anything all kinds of excellent, in-depth articles and tutorials. 9. SpeckyBoy It is one of the online magazines which cover 18 web design and web development topics. Topics of articles include information architecture, design inspiration, freelancing, photography, and icons. They have hired a number of writers which benefits you with a number of the different point of views. SpeckyBoy also features tools for web design for those who really need resources. 10. Code Condo Code Condo provides straightforward development blog features tutorials and tips on a variety of web design topics. The writers of Code Condo research and provide all the trending topics you have been looking for. If you can't locate the information you need, you can click a link to web development courses on their freebies page. 11. Tuts+ Code This is the right platform if you are looking for ‘How to’ tutorials. It offers 1220+ courses as well as more than 170 eBooks on coding, design and illustration, motion/graphic, game development, photos & videos, etc. 12. Creative Bloq Creative Bloq is a platform for articles on HTML & CSS, branding, fonts, animation, 3D modeling, JavaScript, RWD, UX and more. It is said to be a daily mix of advice and inspiration. 13. DavidWalsh With JavaScript and JavaScript frameworks like React.js and jQuery, David Walsh Blog features in-depth articles as well as brief and crisp coding tips. His blog teaches concepts to aspiring web developers through demos and examples. 14. Web Design Ledger Web Design Ledger article is written by web designers for web designers. The goal of Web Design Ledger is to share expertise and resources linked to web design. Topics on this platform range from design templates and themes, to interviews with designers and developers. The blog also covers articles on content management systems (WordPress & Drupal) and development topics like PHP, jQuery, Javascript, NodeJS, etc. 15. Tutorialzine Tutorialzine publishes web design and development tutorials on a regular basis along with compilations of the latest as well as famous JavaScript frameworks and CSS libraries. 16. Coding Horror Coding Horror is the source of information of the experienced web application developer Jeff Atwood. The blog addresses all kinds of software development and security issues, but it is Jeff's interest in the human development element that makes the blog stand out. 17. Onextrapixel Onextrapixel is a platform to share useful tips, news, and resources, on design, development, tutorials, tools and other inspirational topics. 18. Designmodo Apart from providing a long list of blogs on web design, it is also an online shop for web design resources, tools, and UI Kits and icon packs. 19. CSS Author CSS Author is the blog you should be following if you want to generate an interesting and catchy website. This platform provides free templates, design inspirations, resources on coding languages as well as free WordPress themes. 20. Hongkiat Hongkiat is there to offer you the most inspirational content and all content stuff related to design and technology. You can find tutorials, tips, tricks, techniques, tool recommendations and plenty of freebies. It is the best match for web developers, web designers, bloggers, entrepreneurs, and graphic designers. Many of us have already heard that Search Engine Optimization (SEO) is a crucial digital marketing strategy. However, despite having a basic understanding of SEO, a majority of us might just not have a strong grip on this dynamic, multi-faceted entity. SEO is composed of a variety of different features, so learning what they do and how they work is important for understanding why SEO is so essential. Let’s start with the basics. What is SEO? Search Engine Optimization (SEO) applies to the process used to boost the ranking of a website on search engine results pages (SERPs) on platforms like Google, Yahoo, and Bing. Designing an SEO plan of a business will help bring customer traffic on your website, while boosting your sales and revenue. Why Is It Necessary for Your Business? The purpose of a search engine is to provide accurate results that cover the information you're looking for as easily and precisely as possible. To do this, search engines are able to determine and evaluate all relevant information online in terms of quality and significance. In simple terms, SEO is essential as it helps make the website more visible, which implies more visitors and more chances to turn leads into customers. SEO would undoubtedly improve the overall searchability and visibility of the website, resulting in increased conversions for your business. The following are the five key elements for running a successful SEO strategy to make sure people looking for your product or service find you online. 5 Things Every SEO Strategy Needs 1. Make a Mind Map First A mind map is something that tells your whole plan from zero to hundred. It is actually a brainstorming activity that is essential for an effective SEO strategy. A comprehensive mind map doesn’t actually define your final strategy; instead, it helps you envision your thinking process and ideas in one place and see what they can result in altogether. A mind map is essentially a branching sequence of categories, usually coming from the middle, going from more generalized to more specific categories, with concepts getting more detailed. SEO analysts jot down all the points that come to their mind and helps you think in a nonlinear way. A mind map is indeed a far more organized approach to streamline your SEO strategy and encourage you to refer to something that immediately clicks you to develop your strategy. 2. Provide a Visual Representation of Your Strategy Once your basic strategy has been finalized, you need to turn the mind map into a professional and comprehensive document to carry the operations further, keeping the plan transparent and all parties involved in the task. Your strategy is a plan which should include your goals and duties attached to them. Plan out which previous strategies to be repeated and improved, which ones to be renewed and task-specific working needed as the time passes. All of it should be done quickly and in a proper structure so that it becomes comprehensible to your team as well as your clients. Take Google Sheet or whatever you find convenient and make the strategy clear to all the people associated with it. Also make sure that you mention tasks assigned to specific people, priorities of the plan as well as details about the recurring, already planned and done tasks. 3. Understand ‘Who’ and ‘What’ You Are Working For To make your project a success, you must have a good understanding of who and what you are working for whether you are an internal or external SEO. You must be aware of both the strengths and weaknesses in order to maximize SEO potential. You must focus on the following factors. You must understand the company’s vision to help you guide your strategic objectives and metrics. If the vision statement of your company isn’t doing justice to your business. It is the high time you should consider changing it and devise a new version that can justify the purpose of your SEO campaign. We must first need to figure out the product’s unique selling proposition (USP) which means finding out what makes your product or service different from others. This will work as a catalyst for the strategy you need to plan. Moreover, it will help you decide the audience you need to target, the outreach, keywords, etc. You should know where your company is hurting at the very moment. If this doesn't get obliterated, it is something that would always creep or destroy your SEO strategy. Know what the business actually wants to see and likely won't handle until you devote to a strategy. 4. Know Your Audience and Their Mindset This is a key pointer. Understanding your audience can make you win the situation and knowing them means knowing far more than what keywords they search. To know your audience, you must find out the following: Knowing how much prone your audience is to the marketing, upselling, etc. is very important. You should know how hypersensitive or submissive they are to any sort of promotions. You must be aware of their conduct as you develop your strategy. Understand the level of knowledge of your audiences. Knowing them and their mindset will help you plan your strategy, subject matter and you can use the industry jargon accordingly. Who are you targeting is another important thing to consider. Is it B2C or B2B? Find out if your audience is familiar with your industry. Or Are they only concerned about the product you are offering. 5. Set Precise Objectives Keep a goal precise if you want it to be successful. Put your focus more on working sections and how they function along than on a specific dollar amount. Be thoughtful about choosing KPIs and metrics. Revenues are supposed to rise more than expenses. It is also helpful to establish a financial objective while setting up a time-frame. The approach is to pursue goals that will have a clear impact on the organization, its course, and future and the manner in which the business is run. The metrics must depict what's going on with the work pieces, which includes links and authority, rankings and organic search traffic. Conclusion You've likely heard these SEO tips already, but the main question is, did you really pursue them? They'll definitely help you to boost the rankings. Improvements don't take place overnight, so the earlier you begin, the better. Implement all the mentioned tips in your strategy and use them to run your business effectively. Artificial intelligence has affected our everyday lives, and we realize it isn’t a scary concept as people once thought of it. Every year, we see AI introducing new ways to engage users, drives sales and make the processes convenient. In the past years, we witnessed the popularity and effectiveness of AI bots and how they made our lives and jobs easier. Companies in 2019 have been able to access and implement this life-changing technology. Look around yourself if you don't trust me and note all kinds of interesting AI uses. But what’s next now? What’s new in the world of AI in 2019 and ahead? What artificial intelligence trends will be looked upon beyond 2019? Let’s quickly find out more AI trends that are expected to make a mark in 2019 and beyond. Image Recognition Technology has come down to the level that computers not only understand your speech but they are also able to ‘see’ and ‘recognize’ with the help of ‘image recognition’. It is the ability of computers to acquire, process and analyze data from visual sources. Thanks to artificial intelligence, that has become possible. Image recognition has various uses including the ability to detect license plates, allow photo analysis for payment completion or other verification. It can help businesses improve their marketing to a great level. We see it as a rising trend in 2019 and ahead. Advanced AI Assistants We have been facilitated by voice assistants like Apple’s Siri, Amazon’s Alexa and other devices, for a long time now. Till now, these voice assistants have been performing basic tasks like searching and playing the requested song, and making a call, etc. But we expect to witness big changes in the things AI assistants will perform in 2019. AI assistants will be able to perform more individualized experiences as soon as they get better at identifying different users' voices. So rather than just speaking to our mobile or AI home device, we predict we will be able to speak to our cars, TV, even refrigerators. AI-Powered Conversational Search Since the advent of voice search, the way in which users search online has transformed for the past few years. Users now speak a query instead of typing. Voice search is an emerging trend and as soon as people start using AI-powered assistants more often and in new ways, conversational AI-powered search will hold the grip. By new ways, we mean customers will speak of their queries in a more conversational way. As a result, AI-powered search engine will not only provide the number of listings, but it will also facilitate us with more conversational answers. In simpler words, the way users will be provided with the search results will become more advanced. Conversational Chatbots and Virtual Agents We are all familiar with the usability of chatbots contributing to customer services. A mainstream example is easily ordering a burger or a pizza through Facebook chatbots. Gartner predicts ‘By 2020, 85% of customer interactions will be handled without a human.’ So, 2019 will be the year where we will see initiation of some major advancements in chatbots. We expect to see customers speak to chatbots just like they would to a live chat agent. Chatbots will be strengthened with more functionalities, as customers will be able to speak to chatbots just like they would to any chat agent. Therefore, companies along with simple chatbots will be focusing on implementing human-like virtual agents too. More business proprietors will be using conversational chatbots and virtual agents for customer services so that users do not have to pass to a real-life staffer. Smart Recommendations When you shop online, various websites give you recommendations, based on the history of purchases that you have made or browsed. We now expect to see these recommendations become even smarter. AI will be able to provide better recommendation than before based on the tone and sentiment of the customers which will be received as a result of advanced voice search along with their browsing history. Companies will then be providing guided and more personalized shopping experience. Cyber Defense It is a real menace for business owners to prevent cloud infrastructure, the internet of things devices and software-as-a-service (SaaS) platforms from cybercriminals. Nevertheless, artificial intelligence will make it easier for you and ward off cyber threats and hackers. AI cyber defense catches the subtle indicators of any unusual activity that takes place and protects your system early or before the threat becomes uncontrollable. Various companies have started using AI and machine learning to uncover cybercriminals and identify threats before they cause any damage. Last words… These are some of the most useful and exciting AI trends that are expected to score a mark in 2019 and beyond. We expect to see multiple others down the road. People have begun embracing AI rather than being skittish because of the efficiency and convenience it has brought to the world. It possesses the potential to transform the way things are done. We've seen AI revamping domains like digital marketing, CRM and others. We will witness more companies implementing this life-changing technology in the years to come. This year Adobe Max 2020 was showcased virtually due to the coronavirus pandemic. An update in all the recognized products of Adobe including Photoshop, Lightroom and Premiere Pro has been announced. Not only this but a California-based company, San Jose, has also announced new adobe products including Illustrators and Fresco with upgraded UI & features. One major update which was a buzz last year, the launch of Adobe design app, will be launching this year around. Adobe will be launching design app illustrator for the iPad and drawing app Fresco for iPhone. This update didn’t come as a surprise as it was already available as a private beta as well as on pre-order. But still, it is good news for a lot of illustrator users. The Adobe illustrator app on iPad has come with the support of Apple Pencil that will enable the illustrator users to get fine-tuned control on the designs. Moreover, the users of iPad will also get the most demanded features of Adobe desktop version, including grid, radial and mirror repeat. This newly launched illustrator app for iPads includes the feature of zoom in & out with simple pinch gesture; objects can be selected by tapping them and more. The new update in the Illustrator will be supporting 18,000 fonts and also allows the users to upload their own designs and customize them. In other words, Adobe illustrator has ported the app to a touch-interface that will not only improve user experience, but will also give them space for creativity in their designs. Adobe has also announced the new Recolour Artwork feature for the desktop users of illustrators. With this update, users will be able to change the color themes of their design in just a single click. Additionally, some optimizations have been announced by Adobe for the users who are willing to switch between their desktop and iPad in order to improve their cross-device experience. Meanwhile, Adobe’s drawing app, Fresco, which was only available on the iPad and Windows, will also be available on iPhone after this recent update along with upgraded version 2.0. Adobe is trying making Fresco a go-to app for the artist so they can use it on-the-go when inspiration strikes them. Adobe has also announced that the Fresco app for iPhone will be having all the features of the iPad app with additional changes in the design in order to accommodate the app I n the small screen of the iPhone. Not only in iPhone, but Fresco has also announced updates on iPad and Widows version that will be bringing new features supporting text, brushes, smudge tool and pressure sensitivity controls. The app is available for download with a monthly fee of $9.99. Good news for the Adobe’s Creative Cloud plan subscribers as this app is available free of cost for them. Adobe’s approach with recent updates is to maximize its reach and usage by enhancing as well as promoting creativity among mobile phone users. Other than this, the virtual conference also covered the preview of content attribution tool prototype under the Content Authenticity Initiative that was launched at previous year’s Max conference. Integration of Adobe Sensei is among the most significant updates that will bring a profound Artificial Intelligence experience across all the apps of Adobe. Furthermore, users will now be getting augmented focused reality updates in Adobe Aero and XD. The Sensei integration in Adobe Photoshop has brought a new feature of Sky Replacement that enable the users to separate the sky from the foreground and make relevant changes in the image. Adobe Photoshop also has the neural filters that are based on machine learning algorithms for providing next-level image manipulation. The discover panel has also been upgraded to utilize AI for providing personalized recommendations based on the user’s work. Not only this, but Adobe has also introduced an Object Aware Refine Edge and Refine Hair option that is based on AI and enable the users to improve their images. When somebody wants to find a specific business or a place near their location, they will search for it on Google. They will inevitably discover the local results in their search results and Google maps. For example, if you want to find an Italian restaurant near your location, you can easily locate it if you search “Italian restaurant’ in your Google search engine. It will show you every possible nearby restaurant that you would like to visit. This is one way how Google helps to improve the businesses reach, marketing, and engagement. Update Your Business Information for Improved Visibility It is likely that your business does not show up for related searches in your region. Thus, you must ensure that the business information in Google My business is engaging, complete, and accurate to maximize users’ visibility of your business in the local search results. Some ways in which you can improve the local ranking of your business on Google are: · Entering of Complete Data The most relevant results are favored by local results for every search on Google. The right searches match easily with those businesses that have complete and accurate information. It is necessary to make sure that every information about your business is up-to-date. Data such as what you do, where you are, and when they can visit you are most important and needs to be entered completely so that users can find you easily. This can be related to a physical address, category, phone number, and attributes. · Verifying Your Location The location of your business should be verified so that they are more likely to display across Google products such as search and Maps in its local search results. · Keeping Accurate Hours of Your Business The business hours should be updated regularly. Keeping in mind the opening and closing, events, and special holiday hours. The information about accurate hours can let customers have info regarding your availability. This type of data can also give them confidence in your business opening and visiting time. · Responding and Managing to Reviews You should respond to the reviews left by users about your business regularly. The reply to reviews shows the value for customers and for their feedback. The business visibility can improve by positive and high-quality reviews from customers that can increase the likelihood of consumer visits to your location. · Adding Photos You should add photos to your business profile for the display of your services, products, and story of your business. Attractive and relevant pictures can show the associated product that the user is searching for at your business store. How Local Ranking is determined by Google The results on local searches are primarily based on prominence, relevance, and distance. A blend of these factors helps us in finding the best match for our search. Such as, the algorithms might decide that a business that is far away from your area is more likely to have your desired product than a nearby business, hence ranking it higher in local results search. The Relevance of a Business Relevance denotes how well a profile of local business matches your search keywords. The business information should be complete and added in detail to help Google better know your business and relevant searches match your profile easily. Distance to a Business Distance reflects how far each prospective search result is from the location term used in Google search. If a user does not state a location in their search criteria then we will measure distance based on what information we have about their location. The Prominence of a Business Prominence shows how familiar is your business. It depends on information that Google has about your business from social media platforms, articles, links, and directories. Google reviews the count and score factor into the ranking of local search. Positive ratings and more reviews can help progress your business local ranking. The SEO best practices also apply and are a factor in your position in web results. Human beings have fought against infectious diseases throughout history. Although we have developed several effective medicines, new viruses continue to threaten us. The COVID-19 pandemic has created a sense of urgency to improve existing approaches to infectious diseases’ prevention and treatment. Fortunately, the AI and data science approaches available today can help us fight infectious diseases in a better way. The novel coronavirus has spread from its epicenter in China to infect 414,179 people and has caused no less than 18,440 deaths in at least 160 countries over a three-month period from January 2020 to date. According to the Report on the Situation of the World Health Organization (WHO), these estimates are as of 25 March. Accompanying the horrific loss of life caused by the outbreak is the impact on the world economy which has reeled from the pandemic's consequences. As research specifics unfold, the data set is rising exponentially, beyond the capacity of human intelligence to handle the pandemic. Artificial Intelligence (AI) is specialized in detecting patterns from big data, and this article will help us understand how it has become one of the ace players of humanity in coping with this crisis. Using China as a particular example-study, the success of China with AI as a crisis management tool shows its effectiveness, and justifies the financial commitment that technology has had to develop in the past few years. HOW CAN AI COMBAT PANDEMIC? Developments in AI applications like natural language processing, speech recognition, data analytics, machine learning, deep learning and others like chatbots and facial recognition have been used not only for diagnosis, but also for contact tracing and development of vaccines. AI has certainly helped control the COVID-19 pandemic and succeeded mitigate the worst effects. AI has been implemented so far in a variety of ways and the following are only some of the cases in which the technology has been used as a tool to solve the pandemic: Predicting an Epidemic AI algorithms will help with the search through news reports and online content from around the globe, even before it reaches epidemic proportions, helping experts identify anomalies. The corona outbreak itself is a perfect example of AI being applied by researchers to analyze flight traveler data to determine where the novel coronavirus would occur next. Successful implementation of predictive models will be a major step forward in the struggle to eradicate some of the most infectious diseases from the world. Big data analytics can help decentralize the process and allow timely analysis of widespread data sets produced in real-time by the Internet of Things (IoT) and mobile devices. Immediate Diagnosis AI Instant diagnosis ensures that response measures like quarantine can be easily implemented to prevent further spread of the infection. An obstacle to rapid diagnosis is the relative lack of clinical expertise due to the sheer number of cases required to interpret the diagnostic results. In the COVID-19 crisis, AI has improved its diagnostic time through technologies such as that built by LinkingMed, a Beijing-based oncology data platform and medical data analysis company. Pneumonia, a common complication of COVID-19 infection, can now be diagnosed with accuracy as high as 92 percent and a recall rate of 97 percent on test data sets from an analysis of a CT scan in less than sixty seconds. An open-source AI model made this possible by analyzing CT images and not only did it identify lesions but also measured in terms of quantity, volume and proportion. This platform, novel in China, was driven by Paddle Paddle, an open-source deep learning platform to Baidu. Virtual Healthcare Bots The number of COVID-19 cases has demonstrated that they will overwhelm healthcare systems and response measures. AI has leveraged its natural language processing capability to develop a multi-lingual virtual healthcare agent that can address COVID-19-related questions, offer accurate information and specific guidelines, prescribe safety strategies, track and control symptoms, and advise individuals about whether they require medical testing or self-isolation. AI Face Recognition and Fever Detection Thermal cameras have been used for detection of people with fever for some time now. The technical downside is the need for a human operator. Cameras with multi-sensory AI-based technology have already been used in airports, hospitals, nursing homes, etc. The technology recognizes people with fever automatically and records their movements, identifies their faces and detects whether the person wears a face mask. As AI rapidly becomes the staple, health care is certainly a field where it can play a significant role in keeping us healthy and safe. And AI Healthcare will continue to provide solutions to any of the arising epidemic. What Is Xamarin? Xamarin is a development platform that lets you write cross-platform, but native, iOS, Android, and Windows Phone apps in C #and.NET. Xamarin includes the Native Android and iOS APIs with C #bindings. This provides you the ability to use any of the native user interface, notifications, images, animations, and other features of the Android and iOS phone— everything using C#. Each new release of Android and iOS can be paired with Xamarin, with a new release that includes bindings for their new APIs. Xamarin's.NET port provides functionality such as data types, generics, delegates, language-integrated query (LINQ), sequential programming patterns, garbage collection with a subset of Windows Communication Foundation (WCF). Libraries are operated with a linger to have only those components that are referenced. Pros of Xamarin To understand what makes Xamarin so prominent, and why a business should opt for it rather than separately developing native mobile applications, let's take a closer look at the notable features and key business benefits of Xamarin. Compatible Code Xamarin is a development platform that helps you create 60-95% of reusable code. That is why it is often referred to as “write once, use everywhere”. A single codebase can run on a number of native performance platforms, which may require minimal changes only. Comes without limits One of Xamarin's smartest features is that it isn't attempting to impose commonality where there's none. Android and iOS each have UI and SDK features that are distinct from the look and feel of each platform. Such features are central to iOS apps that feel like iOS and Android apps feeling like Android. Some cross-platform application development tools attempt to conceal the uniqueness of the platform which results in apps feeling unfamiliar to the platform they are running on. Xamarin is doing exactly the same. Xamarin focuses on the unique features of each platform. Besides the standard.NET classes, Xamarin offersiOS-specific.NET classes and Android-specific.NET classes, each of which exposes their respective platform's specific functionality. Incorporating the core. .NET classes with the platform-specific classes allows applications to share core logic in both iOS and Android, thus taking advantage of the unique features of each platform. Native Look-and-Feel When developing a cross-platform solution, you don't have to compromise user experience, since Xamarin offers the look-and-feel equivalent to native applications. The use of platform-specific elements and technologies accessible in C #and Visual Studio makes the nativity possible: Android and Xamarin.iOS have the full access to Android and iOS SDKs for.NET developers Essentials library gives access to central overlapping native APIs Forms presents a user interface (UI) toolkit for all mobile platforms, allowing you to reap the benefits of all the unique components in one place and create a single platform-specific interface solution. Saves Time and Expenses Because everything is written in C# and within the.NET framework, different teams are not required for working on the app. Development expenses and maintenance costs are minimized with a single team. It is especially useful for companies with limited human and hardware resources. In addition, the development, testing and deployment processes are substantially simplified when performed by a single team and using a single technological stack which also provides minimal market time. Microsoft’s Technical Support Xamarin assures reliability, continuous technological assistance and fast problem solving as it is supported by Microsoft— one of the leading global tech software companies. Moreover, on the official Microsoft Learn platform, Microsoft offers access to robust educational opportunities, including self-paced Xamarin courses and extensive tech documents. Developers are therefore not working in a vacuum and can get support while developing their skills. Less Bugs The primary reason Xamarin tends to cause fewer bugs is the same reason that it offers quicker time-to-market: less code is written. The less code we write, the fewer bugs are expected. Xamarin also eliminates errors by giving the possibility of wider test coverage. Any provided project has a finite amount of test time. We will write a single, more detailed series of tests that verify the code on all systems rather than wasting more time writing two sets of essentially redundant tests. It also has the capability to minimize bugs by providing the opportunity for greater test coverage. Any given project has a defined or limited amount of time given for testing. Instead of spending that time writing two sets of largely duplicated tests, we can write a single, more detailed set of tests validating the code on both platforms. With Xamarin the whole team will focus solely on working with. NET / C#. This enables the skills of each team member to develop more thoroughly and allows the team as a whole to properly support and inspect one another. Future Readiness By using Xamarin to build our iOS / Android applications, we're able to get our apps ready to support Windows Phone without spending a single second in Windows Phone development. All the shared logic that we create for our iOS / Android app will be completely embraced by Windows Phone as long as we show that we want that to be the case when we first create the project. It allows us to build our app without pouring any effort into Windows Phone development. Nevertheless, should a Windows Phone opportunity arise, all we have to do is build the Windows Phone UI, and instead of just two, our app now supports three smartphone platforms. The development of an eCommerce site includes a lot of moving pieces. Therefore, before jumping into the head first, one has to take into account a number of factors. Designing a simple website is one thing, but developing an eCommerce site comes with a host of challenges. If you have finally decided to create an e-commerce website, the seven points below will tell you how you can do that effectively. Precisely include all the necessary detail A detailed description of the product makes the shopper’s decision for making a purchase. They must know all the facts about whatever product they are willing to buy from you. Show shoppers how the product will benefit, and what features it has. Understand that people aren’t looking for a product but a solution to their problem. Also, add product description for search engine optimization (SEO). Figure out what people are looking for online and then use those phrases on the search results page to get higher rankings. Work attentively on search functionality There is nothing more annoying than using an e-commerce site's search feature and getting hundreds of results that don't match what you've been searching for. Try to ensure that your e-commerce site uses qualified, reliable search engine software, and allows filtering for more advanced search options if you hold a large product inventory. Offer guest checkouts Companies with e-commerce sites mostly want users to create an account to complete a purchase, as this enables follow-up communication that encourages future sales and tracks demographic information for customers to examine sales. Nevertheless, it's important to keep in mind that not everyone wants to go through the account creation process while making a purchase. But for repeated purchases, customers should be encouraged to get themselves registered and enjoy perks like getting notified for any upcoming sale, saving their information for any of the future purchases. However, it's still a good idea to give an option to people who just want to place a one-time order. Put high-quality Images It is extremely important to have high-quality images. The best way to sell anything is to get it into someone's hands, but since it can’t be done online, the next best way is to allow them to visualize the product with the help of high-quality images of the products. Also, keep website’s performance in consideration. Big images can significantly slow down your website load time. If a customer has to wait too long to load a web page, they may become annoyed and end up leaving. A skilled e-commerce web developer will ensure that images (and video) are optimized for websites so that pages can be loaded quickly while maintaining image quality. Keep your navigation user-friendly Electronic commerce sites must always be user-friendly. A fulfilling user experience retains visitors to the site and keeps them coming back for more. Place product categories menus and links at a noticeable place, and make sure the names of the categories and the products in each category are accurate. In addition, ensure that every page serves users with an easy way to get back to wherever they want on the website—whether it’s the home page, finding contact info, choosing another category, or going to the shopping cart directly. Work on responsive design This is the era of mobile devices, be it a smart phone, or a tablet. Therefore, the use of mobile devices to access websites is constantly expanding, and e-commerce purchases are a major part of this traffic. It's extremely essential to ensure that your e-commerce website is mobile-optimized, providing users with the best experience regardless of which device they use to access your website. Marketing is a must! The website launch is only the start of the whole process. You must have heard that, "if you build it, it's going to come," which is a total misconception. It includes a lot more for attracting visitors to your new website. Marketing strategies set up an online presence to accumulate traffic, leads and revenues. There are several ways to attract visitors to your website. Here are just a few popular strategies that digital marketers follow: SEO - Optimizing your pages with keyword phrases people will probably be looking for on search engines. Social media - Communicating and engaging with prospective clients. SEM - Paid Google ads as well as other search engines. Content marketing – Delivering quality content for free on your websites can potentially bring new visitors and separate you from competitor websites. Email marketing - An efficient way of engaging your customers and drawing their attention. Wrapping Up In this digital era, e-commerce websites have the potential to transform your business. Not only can they increase your revenue, but they can also set up your business on a global level – without the hassle of running a brick-and-mortar store. There’s no denying that it takes sweat, time, effort and money to create an e-commerce website. Nevertheless, if you follow the right strategies, a good e-commerce website will not only drive sales, but will also retain more loyal customers than you think. The mobile app industry has changed the way business used to be conducted a few years ago. Regardless of the business type, each organization needs to integrate the latest mobile application technology to achieve maximum growth and expand the means for reaching the target audience. Since mobile app has the potential to ramp up a brand's visibility, every business owner wants to reap the benefits. The future of mobile applications also looks brighter than ever. Let us figure out which trends in the development of mobile apps will dominate 2020! Blockchain Technology Blockchain is a great technology beyond IT buzzwords and cryptocurrencies. And it has also made its way into the mobile app development field. Numerous smart ledgers and online wallets rely on blockchain technology. Expected trends are: Blockchain as a service (BaaS) Trading on cryptocurrency exchange Asset Tokenization ML and AI Integrating machine learning and artificial intelligence is very effective in critical activities such as mobile app development. Expected trends are: Predicting user behaviors AI-enabled face unlocks AIOps for automating IT functions IOT IoT items such as August smart lock, August doorbell cam Philips lighting system and Amazon dash button have won millions of hearts already. Expected trends are: IoT in healthcare AI-enabled IoT devices Self-driving and smart automobiles 5G Technology The 5G network's speed will no doubt be 100 times faster than the 4G network. The industry professionals foresee a transition from 4G networks currently in use to the 5G wireless network by the end of 2020. Expected trends are: 3D gaming Augmented Reality Data security EMM and APM Enterprise Mobile Management (EMM) and Application Performance Management (APM) are two fundamental components of the company's mobile app development process. EMM incorporates the following components: App maintenance App security Beacon Technology Beacons use the BLE (Low Energy Bluetooth) signals. Once the device reaches the region of a beacon, the particular app detects this signal immediately and gives users relevant notifications and instructions. A few of beacon-enabled applications expected in 2020: The Beacon in physical games Beacon enabled mobile payment The Beacon in travels and tourism Wearable Devices A wearable has to have a working platform. For instance, Android smartwatches need WatchOS to work with WearOS and Apple Watch. Therefore, developers need to combine their apps with wearables. Expected trends are: Less reliance on smartphones Increase in the use of fitness trackers Augmented Reality and Virtual Reality The Google Play Store and the App Store are full of VR and AR apps. Augmented reality has been included in apps by brands like Sephora and IKEA to improve and enhance user experience and increase conversion rates. Expected trends are: Mobile AR disruption AR in marketing & advertising AR in healthcare Some other expected trends are… Instant Mobile Apps Relatively smaller instant mobile apps offer basic functionalities without requiring you to download them to your phone. These apps have developed better ways to reach target audiences who may not have installed them, and convinced them for installation. In 2020, markets are expected to witness many instant apps. Chatbots Chatbots have already taken over different aspects of communication in the mobile app world. Part of this is affiliated with the requirement that customers and service providers have real-time interactions. The use of chatbots is set to rise by 2020. Accelerated Mobile Pages (AMP) It helps develop heavy websites across all mobile devices, with high performance, fast loading time and lower bounce rates. Google's announcement says it will shortly be providing a mobile search box to help users discover mobile-friendly websites. In the future, AMP is holding a significant transition in the mobile app market. Conclusion Google Play, Apple App Store, Windows Store and Amazon App Store already offer scores of mobile apps. With all these trends in the development of mobile applications, the mobile app industry will continue to expand rapidly. Therefore, to stand out in the crowd, it is important for business executives to keep up with the latest trends and technologies. Social media helps businesses to be in direct contact with target customers. Social media marketing is relatively inexpensive and allows the brands to reach billions of active users immediately. Launching a product using social media offers multimedia-rich global platforms that make it possible for each community on social networks to spread the message and let others know about your brand. Social media has proven to be one of the best channels for promoting products online for these reasons. Social proofs bring authenticity Customer rating and testimonials serve as an influencer, presenting the product in a good light to the user. It is always beneficial for the consumer to make an informed choice by understanding the experiences of other users, rather than having been swayed by social media advertising. That's why it is important to make customer testimonials or user-generated content the identity of your brand on social media. Hashtags help promotions Recently, Instagram added the functionality to link other accounts and hashtags to your bio. People originally had to make do with memorizing the hashtags or using an emoji creatively. Now you can use the space to support and add hashtags to other location-specific accounts. These hashtags can be your brand’s hashtags or any other hashtags you want. Create Targeted Ads There's a lot of ways to target someone on Facebook with ads. You may begin by adding the Facebook pixel to your page. Take advantage of audience data provided by Facebook to target interest groups. If you've shopped online for shoes lately, you might find that you're getting more shoe ads than ever before. That's because Facebook has taken note of your shopping habits and added you to that list of interest. Announce a giveaway Giveaways are a great way to get people’s interest in your product and broaden the scope of your brand. The great thing about a giveaway is that it helps you sell your product without 'actually' promoting it. The best giveaways are those in which the fans have little to do to participate. Those, too, are the highest in engagement. We'd suggest this way if you're just starting out on giveaways. So, keep your giveaway a simple and exciting. Keep it open to all participants and ensure that the reward is worthwhile. Link your product on Instagram stories Instagram feeds are now categorized by popularity instead of just chronological order, making it harder to get followers to see the posts. Stories are a perfect way of combating this and bringing your brand in front of the target audience. Stories help you to include links and mentions, making it easier for audiences to see and buy your products. Take help from employees Employee support is increasingly becoming a significant source of brand promotion. With the support of your dedicated employees, you can encourage them to promote unique and personalized posts directly on their social channels for further outreach. If you know that your campaign has a likely target demographic that suits your employees, involve them in easily shareable content. Contact influencers Collaborating with influential bloggers and influencers is one of the best suggestions to increase brand awareness. So, reach out to influencers and work out plans to promote the products to different customers to keep them hooked with your brand or product. If you are marketing to your target audience in other communities, then monitor the responses to these posts. Talk about your product on social media communities Joining niche-relevant social media communities/groups can also serve as a good way to raise awareness about your product. The participation in social media groups to support your product will potentially bring better outcomes, because members are already interested or looking for the product as yours. Don’t forget to tag your product on posts Shoppable tags are a must for retail brands, a feature which is available on Instagram and Facebook. They identify your products to your customers and through the tag shoppers can easily buy them from your website. Over to you! Whether you would like to market your brand on social networks through promotional items or business products, this is one of the powerful and engaging mediums for making your product stand out amongst competitors as well as for attracting more customers. Managing an ecommerce business includes several day-to-day activities. You are constantly trying to optimize product pages, add new items, notify buyers of abandoned carts, generate and promote sales and coupons — and this is seldom mirrored instantly in your revenue. Chatbots help customers find information about the services that a business offers, check the availability of their goods, store locations, make reservations or bookings, assess the customer's experience with the service and many more varying directives. Here’s how they help serve your e-commerce business: Help Customers Browse E-Store A customer has to browse through your entire store without the help of an ecommerce chatbot to find the product that they are looking for. And what if they just don't know what they want? The more time a customer invests trying to find a product on your site the greater the probability that they will abandon the sales funnel. So, in order to rescue the situation, a chatbot can speed up and simplify customers shopping experience by helping them find the perfect product. Offer Products to Customers A shopper sometimes has no idea what they really want. They maybe buy someone a gift, and they don't know where to start. They may be giving somebody a present, and they don't know where to begin. Using a chatbot in this situation is valuable because it will enable the customer to narrow down items based on various considerations, such as price ranges. Under its guidelines, customers can conveniently see a number of products and go on from there. Help Ease Payments Methods Checking out is one of the most frustrating parts of the online shopping process. A customer typically has to go through several different pages: entering payment information, providing shipping and billing addresses, and making sure they order the right products in the amounts they need. The payment process can be completed with chatbots straight in the chat! A customer can even complete the entire shopping process from finding a product to ordering it - without having to leave the chat window. Follow Up with Customers Abandoned shopping carts are one of the major risks for missing ecommerce revenue. A customer may abandon his cart on a shopping site for a number of reasons. The prices were perhaps way too high. Or maybe the website required the customer to make an account, and they weren’t interested in keeping track of another login or delete more emails. In such case, an ecommerce chatbot will help re-engage such shoppers. Through reminding them of their abandoned carts, chatbots can follow up customers, and even provide an alternative to quickly complete the order right in the chat. Moreover, chatbots can be used to get customer feedback on past purchases. They can also prompt customers to conclude a product or site review which will help boost business sales and scale. Display Facebook Ads Facebook Messenger ads can be presented using chatbots. These Facebook messenger CTA ads direct user to the chat window rather than the website. After you have caught the eye of a potential customer with your ad (maybe by providing a discount code), you can have the Facebook Messenger chatbot ask the customer for whatever details. Take away... Chatbots are here to help you overcome the challenges in ecommerce marketing. They will you’re your ecommerce business generate leads, collect payment, and serve as sales assistants or personal shoppers. They're best of all available 24/7. Overnight success for startups is only a myth. Things take time to gain name and fame. And it is not that easy to get your name out there in such a crowd of competitors. Let's us guide you through a few things that can put your marketing in the right way, without spending much besides sweat equity. Interact with Online Influencers Any free marketing strategy must be focused on building a strong online network. It's an extremely powerful thing to have people share your brand just because they want to. Look for influential networks and bloggers that target market keywords based on your products. Follow them on their social networks, comment on their posts, share their content with your friends, get in touch with them and let them notice you. If you are in a place where your service is lacking, get out there and immediately begin to be active with influential people. Target Small Niche Initially The journey to effective start-up is long but the foundation is obvious. You must first find a market niche of potential value in an unsolved issue, an unexplored need or an untapped desire to acquire success. Start with the goal to market to smaller, more accessible entrepreneurs. It lets you focus on those communities and those influencers without having to worry about the online marketers' larger community. If you don't start with a niche then you might encounter some bigger issues. Sprout Your Email List If you don't have a subscriber list yet, you can begin by using a landing page or set of opt-in forms on your website to build one. Or if you haven't created a website, you may even use your landing page as your main page – until it's up and working. Moreover, you can provide an incentive to potential subscribers for sign up. Here’s my bonus advice – try contests, they are a brilliant way of collecting email addresses. Design a Content Frequency Content goes hand in hand with the social media and networking. A surefire way to get your name out there without needing to spend much money is through daily publication of good content. Post stuff your ideal readers are interested in sharing with friends, family and colleagues. Do a substantial amount of SEO research and make sure your blog contains keywords that will help your blog rank higher than other blogs that post similar content. Leverage with Guest Posting It is really a good idea to reach out to fellow bloggers who are in your particular industry in addition to doing your own blogging. Offer a few guest posts to write and make sure to include a link to your own site. Additionally, extend fellow bloggers' offer to write guest pieces on your blog, too. Guest blogging gives you the opportunity to share your brand with customers of another. Stay Active with Your Leads Once you have a subscriber list, start sending out emails and updates to keep your customers informed and fascinated by what's happening with your brand. Do not flood them with daily updates, but a weekly or bimonthly email is enough to keep your customers in the loop despite making them feel like you're giving them an update every time you burp. These emails can also be used to help stay engaged with your customers. Send out polls, ask questions and provide the subscribers with a platform to send responses. Become Listed in Directories Online In addition to the local directories, here are some examples of online sites that can be used to help you get even more users. You just need to be sure that you are submitting your company to the sites related to your niche: HackerNews HubSpot Bing Yelp TechCrunch Mashable KillerStartup SpringWise CrunchBase Reddit Customer Experience Matters the Most What you do to make life easier for your customers and how you deal with their service questions will assess how likely someone is to recommend you and become a loyal customer. Begin by contacting anyone who set up a landing page personally and offer them tips on how to improve it, specifically and explicitly for their page. Make sure your support is top-notch and give people support and encouragement. Consider customer experience a ‘crucial component’ of your marketing strategy. Over to You So, what does a startup mean to you? You will get a fair idea after this guide about how you want your startup to appear. If you have a verified idea, funding plan and a fast-growing mindset, your startup is all set for great success. A customer typically just needs a few seconds to decide installing a specific app. This means that you only have a few seconds to win over the customers and gain attention with the app. At the same time, the overwhelming number of applications available increases competition for user attention. To be competitive in the app market isn't as easy as it sounds. If you want to maximize success with your mobile app, you ought to be extensive with your pre-launch and post-launch activities. As the competitiveness is high; it gets harder and harder to stand out from completion. It is not just about launching an app efficiently but to pursue research and find out the factors that are the causes for the failure of the apps. This article outlines six common reasons why mobile app development fail and addresses areas for improvement so you can refine your strategy to meet market and product objectives effectively. Market & Audience Research isn’t done right Did you know 42% of startups are struggling due to the absence of market needs? A great thought in theory usually doesn’t work in practice. A proper research should drive the choice to launch a project. Does the type of app you want to develop provide a business opportunity? Are you solving a problem? who are the competitors? Do people reasonably want to use your app? Are you making life easier for someone? Offering a unique experience? Is the idea well enough defined for execution? You need to be able to justify that your audience would love your app, collect data to support that creating it is not going to be an absolute waste of time and test your idea with your target audience. To find out if your app is unique and solves a particular pain point, it is important to do thorough market research and check up on your competitors. A great way to do this is to build a minimum viable product (MVP) and then update it with more features when you start receiving user feedback from your targeted market. The application must surpass customer expectations and demonstrate that it is vastly superior to your competitors. Not Picking the Platform Wisely Another factor why apps fail is that the platform you choose isn't right according to your researched data. So, choose your app's platform not according to your preference but according to your researched demographic and market so that it can be beneficial to the people you're targeting. These platform-specific touches are very necessary if you want to exude an impressive end user experience. The hardware-based back button, for example, is an integral part of Android app solutions but may not be part of iOS implementations. So, you need to account for all of these considerations before launching an app. The first step must be to identify the platform you want to go with, and then move on to know the platform-specific guidelines you need to integrate for a successful launch of your mobile app. Following the Already Existing Ideas The truth is that app stores are already over-saturated with apps similar to each other. The most successful apps available today have a unique value proposition. In order to cope up with such a situation, as a brand, you need to perform competitive analysis, help you figure out the app's strengths and weaknesses and define your own competitive edge. Setting up a product that has the same characteristics as your competitor's can never help you win customers. A Unique Value Proposition (UVP) is the first step you need to consider for business success overall. Providing an Unimpressive User Experience For a successful user interface, the very basic requirement is usability. For example, if your app has a wide learning curve, you may not be able to offer a good user interface, because users are more likely to get irritated trying to figure out how to use it. The ideal way to impress the user with an experiential app is to keep the loading times minimum, have a simple registration process, and to take care of all the performance issues of the app before it is released. Lack of Thorough Testing While it's unusual to launch an app without slight bugs, make sure that you invest in QA. It can help make sure that there are no major bugs. If an app isn't properly tested, it's likely to be rife with glitches that affect user experience and are prone to crashing. A single crash is more than sufficient to stop users from ever using it again. Some of the most common negative reviews on app stores are actually about apps crashing. It doesn't take long for users of contemporary mobile app market to make judgement on the apps they use. Users have extraordinarily high demands regarding quality functionality and performance of mobile apps. You have to make sure the user friendliness is there so people don't get annoyed. Overlooking Customer Feedback Many businesses tend to ignore feedback from consumers about the app after it's released. That mistake can put company in real trouble. A business can only thrive if it values the input of customers and pays attention to what they are saying It was however seen that only a few developers of applications are paying attention to this section and thus losing opportunities to meet user demand. Adding reviews and comments section to your app is always recommended. Once you have this feature, it's very important that you go through feedback that consumers provide. Some of the comments can be critical while others can be supportive. This is the place from where you can collect hints to help you improve the app. It can be anything like a comment on the services you are providing, slow response time or the interface you are using. In today’s technology-driven world, modern businesses rely on data than on anything else. From entering their time for payroll, seeking guidance on current processes, and evaluating data to make decisions, users interact with data virtually on a daily basis. Microsoft Power Platform Fundamentals No wonder, users can be empowered to gain insights from and interact with data while automating those tedious tasks that appear to be onerous. Power Platform allows your company to create solutions while enabling you to unite tailored technology to help everyone, from top executives to the ordinary employees, drive the business with data. Power Platform consists of four key products: Power Apps, Power Automate, Power BI and Power Virtual Agents. Power Apps provides a rapid low code development environment for building custom apps for business needs. It has services, connectors, and a scalable data service and app platform (Common Data Service) to allow simple integration and interaction with existing data. Power Apps enables the creation of web and mobile applications that run on all devices. An Outline of Common Data Service (CDS) Like a database, Common Data Service, or CDS, is a data storage service, which can be used to store data in the form of tables known as Entities. CDS is a service that is used largely in the Power Apps portal, but it is also accessible through other Power Platform services and Microsoft Dynamics. It would be easy to think of the CDS as just a relational database, but it truly is comprised of three components: entities, logic, and security. Entities Whenever a new environment is created, a new example of CDS is made along with a pre-defined set of entities. This standard data plan is called the Common Data Model (CDM) and the entities created inside the initial instance of CDS are called the core entities. The Common Data Model can be understood to be the base language of the platform and lets applications communicate seamlessly and easily. Logic Not only is the CDS an interactive database with a pre-defined data set, but it also accompanies some integral logic that users are familiar with, allowing data to be authenticated in real time in line with certain requirements. They also can help an end user understand by showing messages advising them on what should be done before saving a record. Logic almost always means another crucial element of the Power Platform: Power Automate. This allows us to automate several different types of processes across the entire Power Platform and beyond. Security Users will be acquainted with the notion of security roles and business units. The CDS follows this security model, which implies that security is easily configured out of the box, letting us us lock down fields and record sharing, just as it occurs in Dynamics. Power Apps: An Overview No-Code Development Platforms Software A no-code platform is a development platform that exploits a visual development setting to lay layperson users craft apps, through systems such as drag-and-drop, adding application elements to create a whole application. Developers as well as non-technical people can use these tools to practice quick application development with modified workflows and functionality. A number of these products are geared toward large businesses that need to swiftly design business processes and workflow applications at a massive scale. The tools provide templates for workflow, element libraries, and interface customization to produce full-fledged applications sans any coding. Types of Power Apps Canvas Apps Canvas-based apps have existed since Power Apps first emerged nearly 2 years ago. Canvas apps can immensely help you connect to a majority of the data sources that are included in your O365 license. What’s more, these apps are amazing for putting scores of data sources together into one app; for crafting a completely custom UI; for delivering a user-friendly, and mobile-first application for your users. 2. Model-driven Apps In Power Apps, model-driven apps are grounded on fundamental data, i.e., the data stored in Common Data Service (CDS). With model-driven apps, you need not worry about selecting the app size. And the best part is that it is responsive, which implies that it works on mobile or tablet quite easily. These apps are built on a data-first approach; therefore, they are far stiffer in design than canvas apps, with a majority of other user interface mechanisms being premade and pre-selected; however, there is still room to edit discrete components. 3. Portals Portals help build externally facing website through smart no-code solutions. Power Apps interface enables you to create an unidentified or genuine website that lets users interact with data held in CDS. Portals let companies create websites which can be shared with external users external either incognito or through the login provider of their choice, including LinkedIn. Enterprise login providers can also be integrated using various industry standard protocols like SAML2, OpenId Connect and WS-Fed. 4. Power Apps Features and Benefits Some of the features of Power Apps include: App creation, running and sharing Drag and drop functionality Integration with other Microsoft products Common Data Service (CDS) Custom APIs Collaboration support Connected to the cloud Benefits of Power Apps Power Apps is the go-to thing for its user-friendly functionalities and its capacity to integrate data. Here are some key benefits that Power Apps offers your business. 1. Speed In a fast-paced tech environment where each minute counts, getting the apps at the right time is very important. One of the major advantages of Power Apps is how swiftly you can develop a valuable, working app. Power Apps takes out numerous time-consuming elements from the normal development process and swaps them with an innate drag-and-drop interface. This results in Power Apps developing a new app faster than ever. 2. Easier App Creation Coding can be a challenging undertaking for a non-programmer with such elements as APIs, libraries, functions, and objects. Power Apps makes this task easier by dealing with a majority of coding by dragging and dropping. Power Apps handles all of the normal overhead that goes into creating a mobile app that either runs in a browser or a local desktop app. Power Apps obviates the need to learn about the pros and cons of frameworks or libraries. 3. Integration with Microsoft Tools One of the key benefits of the Power Apps is that being a Microsoft solution, it is fully capable of integrating with other Microsoft tools. This suggests that developers can leverage data from Microsoft apps such as Dynamics 365, SharePoint, Excel as well as other third-party services. There is a slew of connectors available for Power Apps, which means that there is scope to connect impeccably with other platforms. 4. Low cost Although Power Apps is available within many Microsoft 365 subscriptions, it’s also highly affordable as a standalone app. From a price range between $10 per app per month and $40 per user per month, it delivers a cheaper solution to outsourcing app development. Case study: Heathrow Airport Here’s a real-world case of how a large infrastructure, Heathrow Airport, or London Airport, has used the Power Apps to drastically enhance their business operations. Being a key international airport situated in London, United Kingdom, Heathrow is one of the world's busiest airports. Given the traffic congestion and other complexities involving flight operations at the airport, there was an urgent need to streamline systems there. And the first step towards that objective was to digitize the airport’s processes. To this end, Heathrow Airport adopted Microsoft Office 365 for all its employees, which was later built upon with the introduction of Power Apps. With the help of Power Apps, Heathrow Airport created an official process for creating and executing apps for employees to use. These apps could help employees build their own apps as well as utilize features from other internal apps to avoid a duplication of effort. Outcome The implementation of Power Apps paid dividends to the airport in terms of: Massive drop in use of paperwork; a whopping 75,000 pages of legacy paper were easily eliminated Reduced time of data entry; as many as 1,000 hours were saved Huge cut in costs incurred in work effort Now, these are some general trends in Data Science and Analytics that will be observed in 2021 and the coming years. However, there are many ways in which Data Science is changing the shape of different industries like marketing, finance, etc. Given enough time, Data Science might be a part of all the industries in the world, not just tech! So let's understand the role of this technology in different industries. Marketing and Retail Data Science already plays a huge role in marketing and retail. The most basic thing that almost every company uses is marketing and retail dashboards that visualize the data to see the hidden patterns and trends. Data Science and Machine Learning are also very useful for customer analysis wherein customer data is collected to understand the demographic of customers, the products that are popular with different types of customers, their likes and dislikes, and how to market a particular product to a section of customers. Web and Social Media Analytics The internet and social media are a treasure trove of data! Google alone processes around 20 petabytes of data every day (That's approximately 1 followed by 15 zeros) Companies can use the web and social media analytics to obtain data about their customers and feedback on their performance which can be used to improve their bottom line. Sentiment analysis is a great example of this where companies can obtain their customer reviews from the internet or social media and to understanding the sentiment of the customers towards the company. Supply Chain and Logistics Supply Chain and Logistics may sound boring but it is a critical aspect for companies. Can you imagine Amazon working if their system for transporting products from point A to point B crashed? No! Therefore, Data Science and Analytics is an extremely important part of the Supply Chain and Logistics that companies can use for Inventory Management, Procurement Analysis, Inventory Classification, etc. For example, data analytics algorithms can be used to understand the correlation between demand and supply for companies and create methods to increase sales by always ensuring in-demand items are available. Finance and Risk Analytics FinTech is a technology trend that is becoming more and more popular with time. It involved finance companies using cutting edge technology like Data Science and Artificial Intelligence to improve in areas like risk analytics, fraud detection, algorithmic trading, etc. Many big banks and finance companies use Data Science to analyze their large store of data to optimize their risk scoring models and decrease their risks. This data can include financial transactions, lending schemes, interest rates, customer interactions, customer trustworthiness, etc. ALSO READ: How Machine Learning Helps User-Experience (Infographic) How to Leverage these Data Science and Analytics Trends in 2021? As you have seen, there are various new Data Science and Analytics trends emerging in 2021. You can leverage them to learn more about Data Science and improve your career using the data science courses offered by Great Learning in collaboration with The University of Texas. These programs will teach you right from the basics of Data Science such as Python, Business Statistical, and Data Visualization to various techniques of Machine Learning such as Supervised and Unsupervised algorithms. You will also get direct domain exposure by doing projects relating to Data Science in different industries like Marketing and Retail, Web and Social Media Analytics, Supply Chain and Logistics, and Finance and Risk Analytics. Some of these projects include Facebook Comments Prediction, Retail Sales Prediction, Insurance Data Visualization, etc. In today's rapidly evolving digital landscape, cloud migration has become an essential strategy for organizations looking to enhance resource efficiency, reduce operational expenses, adapt quickly to shifting market demands, and effectively protect their data. By thoroughly grasping these factors, organizations can develop customized and flexible solutions that meet their specific requirements, helping them stay competitive and agile in an increasingly digital marketplace. But the question remains: what is cloud migration? What is Cloud Migration? Cloud migration is the process of moving an organization’s digital assets, services, databases, IT resources, and applications from on-premise data centers to a cloud infrastructure. It can also involve shifting from one cloud environment to another (known as cloud-to-cloud migration). The migration typically includes moving data, applications, and workloads to cloud services like Amazon Web Services (AWS), Microsoft Azure, or Google Cloud. Cloud migration offers numerous benefits, such as scalability, cost-efficiency, enhanced performance, flexibility, and increased security. The process can be complex, often requiring careful planning to ensure business continuity and minimal downtime during the transition. Types of Cloud Migration There are various types of cloud migrations depending on what you are migrating and where. So, here are the primary types of cloud migration: Workload-Specific Migration This approach focuses on migrating specific workloads to the cloud. For example, some companies may move specific databases or mainframes to the cloud to take advantage of reduced costs, better performance, stronger security, and additional benefits. Cloud-to-Cloud Migration Some organizations transfer their resources from one public cloud to another for several reasons, including due to different pricing models, improved security features, or access to specialized products like machine learning tools or AI. This shift can also be prompted by changes in the company’s structure or updates to service-level agreements. Complete Data Center Migration This type of migration entails transferring all data, applications, and services from on-premises data centers to a cloud provider’s servers. Due to its complexity, it demands careful planning and rigorous testing to guarantee a seamless and efficient implementation. Hybrid Cloud Migration In this migration, companies shift some resources to the public cloud while retaining others on-premises, allowing organizations to maximize existing infrastructure and benefit from cloud flexibility. It also serves as a backup strategy, enabling data recovery from the cloud in case of on-premises system failures. Benefits of Cloud Migration Many organizations are now moving towards cloud migration. Why? Here are some key benefits: Elastic Scalability Cloud-based infrastructure removes many physical and financial obstacles to scalability. Unlike on-premises setups, which demand large investments in server maintenance and data centers, cloud solutions enable businesses to easily scale IT resources up or down as needed. Improved Security Although no system is entirely foolproof, cloud service providers enforce strict security protocols to protect sensitive data, adhering to industry standards and regulations. Automated updates and advanced security tools help minimize risks. In the End Cloud migration provides organizations with key benefits, helping them stay competitive in today’s fast-evolving digital landscape. It offers flexible scalability, cost-efficiency, improved security, and faster technology adoption, addressing many challenges of traditional IT infrastructure. So, book your free cloud consultation today and get in touch with Arpatech’s Cloud Migration specialists! Just like the weather, when it comes to clouds, they keep changing, evolving and forming based on different conditions. Similarly, the business cloud also takes shape according to the changing environment, business requirements, and the technology sector. What is enabling organizations to reconsider their structure? The rise of AI, growing concerns around cybersecurity, widespread adoption of software as a service (SaaS), massive data growth, the surge in connected devices, and the normalization of mobile and hybrid work are all reshaping the cloud, prompting industries to restructure their system. To better understand how the operational landscape impacts the business cloud and to explore how organizations can best leverage it, here are some insights by cloud experts in the industry. Shifting Towards SaaS As we approach 2025, the focus of cloud computing is shifting from infrastructure and platform-as-a-service models to a stronger emphasis on software-as-a-service (SaaS). Major players like Salesforce, Microsoft, Adobe, and Atlassian are already leading the market, but new contenders are likely to emerge as the decade progresses. We all recognize that the cloud varies for each organization, shaped by their specific operations and workloads. It is predicted that more than 750 million cloud-native applications will be developed globally by 2025, as businesses strive to build sustainable digital value engines. The maturity and user-friendliness of these SaaS solutions mean they can be quickly acquired and configured to run essential business processes within hours, providing the flexibility and agility needed for operational efficiency in the cloud. Industry Cloud Platforms are Way Better Every industry operates under distinct conditions, which are driving the rise of Industry Cloud Platforms (ICPs)—customized cloud solutions tailored to the unique requirements of specific sectors. These platforms transform cloud infrastructure into both a business enabler and an innovation tool. As discussed earlier, the cloud promotes agility. Integrating industry-specific SaaS with these platforms allows organizations to rapidly adopt cloud solutions that align with their industry's particular characteristics. Gartner predicts that by 2027, over 70% of enterprises will be using industry cloud platforms (ICPs) to accelerate their business initiatives, a significant increase from less than 15% in 2023. The growing adoption of these platforms will largely stem from the shared needs within industry sectors and the cost efficiencies of leveraging established industry-standard solutions. However, organizations should be cautious: relying too heavily on ICPs could erode their competitive edge. By adopting the same platforms as their competitors, they may trade unique advantages for cost savings and ease of implementation. AI's Growing Influence Leading the Shift Back to Private Cloud Solutions We are already experiencing the advantages of cloud computing powered by AI. Instead of merely using the cloud for basic IT functions like data storage or application hosting, businesses are increasingly leveraging cloud services in combination with artificial intelligence to achieve more ambitious goals, such as enhancing customer experiences and developing new products. In this landscape, AI is becoming the driving force behind transformation in SaaS applications and platforms. To support these innovations, we anticipate a continued mass migration of data to the cloud, enabling organizations to capitalize on innovation, insights, and cost savings. As a result, more organizations are expected to move certain workloads and applications off public cloud environments and into private clouds. This way, storing data in the cloud will offer universal access to information from anywhere with an internet connection. It will improve collaboration among employees, partners, and customers, and enable real-time sharing and co-working on documents, regardless of location. In the End However, with the evolving complexity of workloads and rising cybersecurity threats, organizations are increasingly recognizing that “not everything needs to be hosted in public cloud environments.” There are clear advantages to shifting data and workloads to private, hybrid, or on-premises environments. Since 2023, more organizations have been moving their data from the cloud back to their own systems, a trend that is expected to continue. This may seem surprising given the global rise in cloud use, but it's a strategy driven by increasing cloud costs and the need for AI-driven workloads. Still unsure on how to take maximum use out of the cloud? Contact industry experts at Arpatech and let's shift your business to the cloud! Just like the weather, when it comes to clouds, they keep changing, evolving and forming based on different conditions. Similarly, the business cloud also takes shape according to the changing environment, business requirements, and the technology sector. What is enabling organizations to reconsider their structure? The rise of AI, growing concerns around cybersecurity, widespread adoption of software as a service (SaaS), massive data growth, the surge in connected devices, and the normalization of mobile and hybrid work are all reshaping the cloud, prompting industries to restructure their system. To better understand how the operational landscape impacts the business cloud and to explore how organizations can best leverage it, here are some insights by cloud experts in the industry. Shifting Towards SaaS As we approach 2025, the focus of cloud computing is shifting from infrastructure and platform-as-a-service models to a stronger emphasis on software-as-a-service (SaaS). Major players like Salesforce, Microsoft, Adobe, and Atlassian are already leading the market, but new contenders are likely to emerge as the decade progresses. We all recognize that the cloud varies for each organization, shaped by their specific operations and workloads. It is predicted that more than 750 million cloud-native applications will be developed globally by 2025, as businesses strive to build sustainable digital value engines. The maturity and user-friendliness of these SaaS solutions mean they can be quickly acquired and configured to run essential business processes within hours, providing the flexibility and agility needed for operational efficiency in the cloud. Industry Cloud Platforms are Way Better Every industry operates under distinct conditions, which are driving the rise of Industry Cloud Platforms (ICPs)—customized cloud solutions tailored to the unique requirements of specific sectors. These platforms transform cloud infrastructure into both a business enabler and an innovation tool. As discussed earlier, the cloud promotes agility. Integrating industry-specific SaaS with these platforms allows organizations to rapidly adopt cloud solutions that align with their industry's particular characteristics. Gartner predicts that by 2027, over 70% of enterprises will be using industry cloud platforms (ICPs) to accelerate their business initiatives, a significant increase from less than 15% in 2023. The growing adoption of these platforms will largely stem from the shared needs within industry sectors and the cost efficiencies of leveraging established industry-standard solutions. However, organizations should be cautious: relying too heavily on ICPs could erode their competitive edge. By adopting the same platforms as their competitors, they may trade unique advantages for cost savings and ease of implementation. AI's Growing Influence Leading the Shift Back to Private Cloud Solutions We are already experiencing the advantages of cloud computing powered by AI. Instead of merely using the cloud for basic IT functions like data storage or application hosting, businesses are increasingly leveraging cloud services in combination with artificial intelligence to achieve more ambitious goals, such as enhancing customer experiences and developing new products. In this landscape, AI is becoming the driving force behind transformation in SaaS applications and platforms. To support these innovations, we anticipate a continued mass migration of data to the cloud, enabling organizations to capitalize on innovation, insights, and cost savings. As a result, more organizations are expected to move certain workloads and applications off public cloud environments and into private clouds. This way, storing data in the cloud will offer universal access to information from anywhere with an internet connection. It will improve collaboration among employees, partners, and customers, and enable real-time sharing and co-working on documents, regardless of location. In the End However, with the evolving complexity of workloads and rising cybersecurity threats, organizations are increasingly recognizing that “not everything needs to be hosted in public cloud environments.” There are clear advantages to shifting data and workloads to private, hybrid, or on-premises environments. Since 2023, more organizations have been moving their data from the cloud back to their own systems, a trend that is expected to continue. This may seem surprising given the global rise in cloud use, but it's a strategy driven by increasing cloud costs and the need for AI-driven workloads. Still unsure on how to take maximum use out of the cloud? Contact industry experts at Arpatech and let's shift your business to the cloud! When you're managing a business, one of the major roles is fulfilled by technology. It promotes operational efficiency, and productivity and keeps you ahead of your competition. However, it can be a daunting task to stay above all your technological needs, especially if you are a growing business new in the market. Here, co-managed IT services save you from a disaster. We know that starting a business brings limited resources, tight budgets, and gaps in skills and experiences. So, lets talk about how you can employ co-managed IT services and lead the pack in IT advancements. Defining Co-Managed IT Services When you strategically partner with an outside managed Service provider aka MSP, to handle some of the IT infrastructure of your organization, it is termed as a co-managed IT service. This is a hybrid module, where you have the main controls of your fundamental IT functions, but for additional resources, advanced technologies, and specialized skills, you employ the help of your MSP and take your business forward. Benefits of Managed IT Services Partnership When you're open to leveraging the power of experienced personnel outside your company, you tend to grow and develop beyond your imagination. Here are some benefits that you'll see grow after the signature of your collaboration: Your IT Horizons Diversify Co-managed IT services enable you access to advanced technologies and methodologies that you haven’t heard of yet. As your internal IT teams are still growing and discovering, these experts have been in the industry for years and they are still learning. So, partnering with a credible Managed Service provider will endeavor to fill in the gaps in your IT infrastructure and bring your organization to the same level as the latest tech giants. Access to Qualified Experts As technology is continuously evolving, it is necessary to stay on top of the curve, professionals at an expert MSP will bring you a seasoned team with skills in areas like cloud computing, networking, and cybersecurity, they address all the shortcomings in your IT team’s knowledge base. Enhanced Security Cyber threats are growing increasingly sophisticated, making constant vigilance essential to protect your business. Most MPS use advanced security protocols and real-time monitoring to protect your data and systems. Their teams guide you through compliance requirements and implement best practices to reduce risk effectively. Thrive in Core Business Areas When you delegate the IT work to a Managed IT service, it enables you to shift your focus toward projects and strategies that drive your business growth. This boosts productivity and increases employee satisfaction by allowing them to focus on projects that align with their strengths and interests. Collaborate with the Managed IT Support at Arpatech At Arpatech, we prioritize creating partnerships that drive shared growth and success. Our co-managed IT services are collaborative and tailored to meet your specific requirements. Proactive Support With 24/7 monitoring and maintenance, we address issues before they become major problems, minimizing downtime and disruptions. Customized Solutions We thoroughly evaluate your IT setup and develop a strategy that aligns with your team’s strengths. Dedication to Excellence Our team is committed to outstanding service and continually explores ways to enhance your IT operations. Clear Communication We keep you informed with regular updates and reports to ensure alignment with your business goals. In the End Embrace co-managed IT services with Arpatech and bridge the gap between your in-house resources and the rapidly evolving technological demands of your industry. This strategic choice strengthens your business, boosts security, and promotes innovation. It has been confirmed that the FIFA World Cup of the year 2034 will be hosted in Saudi Arabia. With their Vision 2030, this World Cup arrives at a very opportune moment for the tech development of the kingdom. As Saudi Arabia forges ahead with its transformative Vision 2030, the bid to host the FIFA World Cup 2034 stands as a beacon of progress and global engagement. This ambitious vision promises not only a spectacular event but also unprecedented opportunities for the construction industry. Here’s a closer look at the fifteen stadium projects for the bid and the potential they hold for the construction industry. How Does FIFA 2034 Align with Saudi Vision 2030? Saudi Vision 2030 is a bold framework aimed at reducing the kingdom’s dependence on oil, diversifying its economy, and focusing on building Saudi Arabia into a global investment powerhouse and tourism hub. Hosting the FIFA World Cup 2034 perfectly complements this vision in several ways: Economic Diversification The World Cup 2034 will attract global businesses, investors, and tourists, boosting the non-oil industries such as hospitality, real estate, and infrastructure. Massive investments in stadium construction, smart cities, and transportation align with Vision 2030's goals to build sustainable and diversified economic sectors. Infrastructure Development Under Vision 2030, Saudi Arabia is committed to building futuristic urban spaces. The World Cup provides a platform to accelerate projects like NEOM, a futuristic mega-city powered by clean energy, and the development of 15 ultra-modern stadiums with state-of-the-art facilities. Job Creation and Workforce Development The tournament will open avenues for employment, from construction to event management, technology, and tourism. Additionally, Vision 2030 focuses on equipping the local workforce with skills to thrive in these industries, supporting long-term growth. Global Image and Soft Power By hosting a major international event, Saudi Arabia positions itself as a progressive, innovative, and inclusive nation, appealing to global audiences and investors while redefining its global image. Sustainability Vision 2030 emphasizes environmental sustainability. FIFA 2034 will showcase eco-friendly stadiums and green technologies, proving the kingdom's commitment to reducing its carbon footprint. Technologies and Trends We Can Expect From the Event The FIFA World Cup 2034 will not only be a sporting spectacle but also a showcase of latest technologies and trends. Saudi Arabia's investment in digital transformation will put its technological advancements in the global spotlight. Here are some technologies and trends to watch for: Smart Stadiums Saudi Arabia is working on building 15 stadiums in 5 major cities for FIFA 2034, which will feature advanced smart technologies. These include IoT-enabled systems for crowd management, climate control, and energy efficiency. Fans can expect immersive experiences powered by augmented reality (AR) and virtual reality (VR). 5G and Connectivity High-speed 5G networks will be implemented to ensure seamless connectivity for fans, players, and broadcasters. From live streaming matches in ultra-HD to offering real-time updates and personalized experiences through mobile apps, connectivity will be unparalleled. Artificial Intelligence (AI) AI will play a key role in event management, from traffic and security monitoring to optimizing experiences. Smart analytics will improve logistics, ticketing, and crowd safety. Digital Twins Saudi Arabia is also expected to use digital twin technology to create virtual replicas of stadiums and infrastructure. This will ensure efficient operations, predictive maintenance, and optimized visitor flows during the tournament. Autonomous Transport The kingdom’s investment in autonomous vehicles and smart public transport systems will redefine mobility for FIFA 2034. Self-driving electric buses, metro systems, and ride-sharing platforms will ensure seamless transportation for visitors. Cybersecurity Infrastructure Given the scale of the event, robust cybersecurity systems will be deployed to protect critical infrastructure, digital transactions, and fan data. As they are already adept at securing people by hosting more than 2 million pilgrims every year for the Hajj, we can bet that for FIFA 2034, Saudi Arabia will showcase its advanced cybersecurity frameworks to safeguard all operations. Advent of Smart Cities The tournament is also expected to be hosted in Neom, Saudi Arabia’s smart city initiative, featuring AI-powered services, sustainable housing, and digital-first urban planning that will set a global benchmark. Digital Twin Technology Keeps Everything in Line If we look back at the success of the FIFA World Cup Qatar 2022, much of its achievement can be attributed to the advanced technological innovations implemented across the stadiums. For this Qatar event, we worked as subcontractors for Cloud Services. Our job at Arpatech was to build a cloud system that was reliable, scalable, and cost-effective to handle heavy demand. We used technologies like Microsoft Azure, Terraform, and Kubernetes, along with JCI's advanced digital twin system. This system allowed real-time monitoring and control of the stadium environment, making sure everything ran smoothly during the tournament. In case you missed it: Let the Games Begin! The FIFA World Cup 2034 is more than just a tournament for Saudi Arabia; it is a launchpad for technological innovation, infrastructure development, and economic transformation. By aligning the event with Vision 2030, Saudi Arabia is ready to redefine the future of mega-events through smart technologies, sustainability, and digital-first solutions. As the world turns its eyes toward the kingdom, FIFA 2034 will undoubtedly mark a new chapter in global sports and technological evolution. Cloud Infrastructure Management refers to the process of overseeing, controlling, and optimizing the cloud resources and services that power an organization's IT ecosystem. It ensures that cloud environments are secure, cost-efficient, and aligned with business objectives. Let’s dive into what cloud infrastructure management entails and explore the top five strategies to manage it efficiently. Understanding Cloud Infrastructure Management Cloud infrastructure encompasses all the virtualized resources and services that are delivered via the Internet, such as virtual machines, storage, networking, and databases. Managing this infrastructure involves tasks like: Monitoring performance Security and Compliance Resource allocation Cost management Disaster recovery Top 5 Strategies to Manage Cloud Infrastructure Efficiently 1. Automate Repetitive Tasks The cloud changes constantly, with workloads and setups shifting all the time. Automating repetitive tasks like creating backups or adjusting server capacity saves time and avoids errors. Tools such as AWS CloudFormation, Terraform, or Kubernetes make this easier and ensure everything runs consistently. 2. Implement a Cloud Governance Framework Setting up a cloud governance framework is essential to keep cloud costs and security under control. Without clear rules, spending can get out of hand, and systems may become vulnerable. A governance framework provides simple guidelines, like managing how resources are used to avoid wasting money, controlling who can make changes to settings to keep things secure, and following industry rules to stay compliant. By putting these rules in place, organizations can use cloud services wisely, save money, and reduce risks 3. Use Real-Time Monitoring Tools Real-time monitoring tools help you spot issues early. For example, tools like AWS CloudWatch or Datadog track things like how much memory your systems use or how fast they respond. They can even send alerts so you can fix problems before users notice. 4. Optimize Costs Regularly Pay-as-you-go pricing can lead to surprises if you’re not careful. Regularly reviewing your usage and scaling back unnecessary resources keeps costs in check. Tools like AWS Cost Explorer or Google Cloud’s Pricing Calculator can help pinpoint areas where you can save. 5. Adopt a Multi-Cloud or Hybrid Strategy Relying on just one provider can create risks, like being stuck with their services or facing downtime. A multi-cloud or hybrid strategy spreads your resources across different platforms, adding flexibility and improving recovery options if something goes wrong. Conclusion Cloud infrastructure management enables businesses to take advantage of the full potential of the cloud while minimizing risks. By automating processes, monitoring performance, implementing governance frameworks, and adopting multi-cloud strategies, companies are able to ensure their cloud environments are efficient and aligned with business goals. Here at Arpatech, we recommend businesses invest in strong management practices to not only strengthen the reliability of their IT ecosystem but also to discover the full capacity of cloud computing for your organization. As technology evolves at a rapid pace, businesses must modernize their legacy applications to remain competitive and meet changing customer expectations. Application modernization involves updating outdated software systems to improve their performance, scalability, and alignment with current business requirements. Whether it’s migrating to the cloud, adopting microservices, or enhancing user interfaces, remodeling ensures that legacy applications stay relevant in today’s dynamic market. Here, we’ll learn about application modernization and discuss five best practices to implement it effectively. What is Application Modernization? Application modernization is the process of transforming legacy applications to align with modern IT standards and technologies. It includes functions like: Migration of applications to cloud platforms. Enhance security and compliance. Re-engineering outdated user interfaces. Improving system performance and scalability. 1. Assess and Prioritize Your Applications Modernizing applications helps businesses reduce operational costs, improve agility, and deliver better user experiences. However, before modernization, conducting a thorough assessment of existing applications is crucial. This involves identifying applications that are critical to business operations, have high maintenance costs, or face performance and security issues. Using frameworks like Gartner’s TIME (Tolerate, Invest, Migrate, Eliminate) model can help categorize applications and prioritize them for modernization. By focusing on applications that deliver the greatest value, organizations can optimize their modernization efforts and maximize returns on investment. 2. Adopt a Cloud-First Approach A cloud-first approach provides flexibility, scalability, and cost efficiency, making it a cornerstone of application modernization. Depending on the needs of the organization, applications can be rehosted (moved to the cloud with minimal changes), replatformed (modified slightly to optimize performance on the cloud), or refactored (redesigned to take full advantage of cloud-native features). Migrating to the cloud also facilitates the integration of cutting-edge technologies such as artificial intelligence, the Internet of Things (IoT), and big data analytics, further enhancing business capabilities. For industries like healthcare, understanding what is healthcare cloud migration is critical to ensuring secure, compliant, and scalable digital transformation. 3. Embrace Microservices Architecture Legacy systems often rely on monolithic architectures, where all components are tightly integrated, making updates and scaling difficult. Transitioning to a microservices architecture allows applications to be divided into smaller, independently deployable services. This shift enables faster updates, easier scalability, and improved fault tolerance. Modern tools like Kubernetes and Docker simplify the implementation and management of microservices, helping organizations achieve greater agility and resilience in their IT ecosystems. 4. Leverage DevOps and Continuous Delivery Modernizing applications goes beyond just updating software; it also requires adopting modern development practices. Implementing DevOps and Continuous Delivery (CD) practices streamlines the development lifecycle, enabling faster and more reliable deployments. This includes automated testing and deployment pipelines, continuous integration for frequent code merges, and infrastructure as code (IaC) for consistent environment management. By fostering collaboration between development and operations teams, this approach reduces downtime and accelerates modernization efforts. 5. Focus on User Experience (UX) Modernization efforts should also prioritize user experience, as outdated interfaces can hinder usability and satisfaction. Enhancing user interfaces with responsive designs, improved accessibility features, and streamlined workflows can make applications more intuitive and engaging. Conducting user research to understand pain points and implementing modern design principles ensures that the revamped applications meet user expectations, leading to higher customer satisfaction and productivity gains for internal users. Request a Free Consultation Conclusion Application modernization is essential for organizations to stay agile and competitive in today’s fast-paced digital landscape. By assessing applications, adopting cloud strategies, leveraging microservices, embracing DevOps, and enhancing user experiences, businesses can effectively modernize their legacy systems and unlock their full potential. While the process may seem challenging, a strategic approach ensures a smooth transition and delivers long-term benefits. Start small, focus on high-impact areas, and continually evolve your applications to meet future challenges. As technology evolves at a rapid pace, businesses must modernize their legacy applications to remain competitive and meet changing customer expectations. Application modernization involves updating outdated software systems to improve their performance, scalability, and alignment with current business requirements. Whether it’s migrating to the cloud, adopting microservices, or enhancing user interfaces, remodeling ensures that legacy applications stay relevant in today’s dynamic market. Here, we’ll learn about application modernization and discuss five best practices to implement it effectively. What is Application Modernization? Application modernization is the process of transforming legacy applications to align with modern IT standards and technologies. It includes functions like: Migration of applications to cloud platforms. Enhance security and compliance. Re-engineering outdated user interfaces. Improving system performance and scalability. Assess and Prioritize Your Applications Modernizing applications helps businesses reduce operational costs, improve agility, and deliver better user experiences. However, before modernization, conducting a thorough assessment of existing applications is crucial. This involves identifying applications that are critical to business operations, have high maintenance costs, or face performance and security issues. Using frameworks like Gartner’s TIME (Tolerate, Invest, Migrate, Eliminate) model can help categorize applications and prioritize them for modernization. By focusing on applications that deliver the greatest value, organizations can optimize their modernization efforts and maximize returns on investment. Adopt a Cloud-First Approach A cloud-first approach provides flexibility, scalability, and cost efficiency, making it a cornerstone of application modernization. Depending on the needs of the organization, applications can be rehosted (moved to the cloud with minimal changes), replatformed (modified slightly to optimize performance on the cloud), or refactored (redesigned to take full advantage of cloud-native features). Migrating to the cloud also facilitates the integration of cutting-edge technologies such as artificial intelligence, the Internet of Things (IoT), and big data analytics, further enhancing business capabilities. Embrace Microservices Architecture Legacy systems often rely on monolithic architectures, where all components are tightly integrated, making updates and scaling difficult. Transitioning to a microservices architecture allows applications to be divided into smaller, independently deployable services. This shift enables faster updates, easier scalability, and improved fault tolerance. Modern tools like Kubernetes and Docker simplify the implementation and management of microservices, helping organizations achieve greater agility and resilience in their IT ecosystems. Leverage DevOps and Continuous Delivery Modernizing applications goes beyond just updating software; it also requires adopting modern development practices. Implementing DevOps and Continuous Delivery (CD) practices streamlines the development lifecycle, enabling faster and more reliable deployments. This includes automated testing and deployment pipelines, continuous integration for frequent code merges, and infrastructure as code (IaC) for consistent environment management. By fostering collaboration between development and operations teams, this approach reduces downtime and accelerates modernization efforts. Focus on User Experience (UX) Modernization efforts should also prioritize user experience, as outdated interfaces can hinder usability and satisfaction. Enhancing user interfaces with responsive designs, improved accessibility features, and streamlined workflows can make applications more intuitive and engaging. Conducting user research to understand pain points and implementing modern design principles ensures that the revamped applications meet user expectations, leading to higher customer satisfaction and productivity gains for internal users. Conclusion Application modernization is essential for organizations to stay agile and competitive in today’s fast-paced digital landscape. By assessing applications, adopting cloud strategies, leveraging microservices, embracing DevOps, and enhancing user experiences, businesses can effectively modernize their legacy systems and unlock their full potential. While the process may seem challenging, a strategic approach ensures a smooth transition and delivers long-term benefits. Start small, focus on high-impact areas, and continually evolve your applications to meet future challenges. Get start today A well-maintained and reliable IT infrastructure is a necessity for organizations today. However, choosing the right service model can be challenging with many options. You can either get Fully Managed vs. co-managed IT services depending on which best suits your organization’s requirements. Now, let’s see the insights ourselves to determine the best course of action for your enterprise by answering a few well-intended questions: Defining Fully Managed vs. Co-Managed IT Services What are Co-Managed IT Services? When your IT infrastructure is strong, it can lead to humongous success. Merge your in-house IT division with external tech experts, who will help improve your technological capabilities and take your business to another level. Co-managed IT services are designed for organizations that already have a well-functioning IT department but need some support in either outsourcing services or some in-house projects. When organizations partner up with external IT teams, their internal teams are released to focus on core organizational goals. Some services that are offered within a fully co-managed IT support are: Help Desk Support System administration and infrastructure management Cloud infrastructure support Network support and management Backup and disaster recovery management Hardware procurement Vendor support and management Strategic tech consulting What are Fully Managed IT Services? Collaborate with an external IT service partner and trust them with your entire tech architecture. With IT fully managed services, you get an extensive suite of IT management services that your organization may have lacked. These fully managed IT services are designed for businesses that do not have an internal IT department or would like to outsource most of their IT needs. From strategic planning to infrastructure management, the IT service providers take over every part of your technology needs and ensure that your IT environment remains secure and optimal at all times. Fully managed IT services offer: Infrastructure and Network Management Backup and Disaster Recovery Management 24/7 Helpdesk and Support IT Strategy and Consulting Cloud Services and Security Benefits of Managed IT Services If you're looking for reliable and efficient technology support, with managed IT services, you can doubtlessly get that and a wide range of benefits as well. Here are a few advantages that we think can convince you to get system support for your business! Lesser Responsibilities and IT Worries Managed IT service providers take away all your tech-related worries, enabling you to focus on the core activities within your enterprise. They manage your IT infrastructure and make sure that all technology works seamlessly without ever interrupting business. No Accumulated IT Internal Costs With no internal teams needed when you have a partnership with an external IT service provider, you accumulate close to no expenses on your tech operations. 24/7 Experts on Call Most managed service providers have a pool of highly qualified and experienced IT technicians on deck. Therefore, no matter how many times you face a tech-related problem, you'll be connected to a skilled IT expert every time. Streamlined Support with Help Desk Systems Efficient support starts with the right tools. Learn how a help desk support and ticketing system can enhance response times and service quality. Pros and Cons of Both Fully Managed vs Co-Managed IT Services In order to succeed within your industry, it is important that you know what fits right with your business. There are benefits and drawbacks in every decision that you take, but to know what will have the least drawbacks, we look at every feature and their alignment with our requirements: Advantages of Co-Managed IT Services Co-managed IT services are great if you already have an in-house IT team but need a little extra help. Here are some of the best benefits: Collaboration between in-house team and external experts Maybe your team is swamped, or there are specific tasks that need more expertise. With co-managed services, you can offload some of the work without giving up control and get help from niche experts effortlessly. Enable Business Scalability With MSPs, you can give your business flexibility according to your requirements. if your internal team has a lot to do, you can level up the MSP support and if things go back to a normal pace, you can as easily scale down to meet your needs. Bring Cost-Optimization MSP is flexible and helps you get more done without hiring more full-time staff. This way, you hire fewer full-time employees and use MSP expertise to reduce your overall costs. Disadvantages of Co-Managed IT Services While co-managed IT is helpful, it can sometimes get tricky. Here are a couple of obstacles that you might face: Communication can be Choppy Communication needs to be spot-on between your internal team and the external provider, or things could fall through the cracks. This is one of the blockages that IT teams face with co-managed services Is Your Internal Team Highly Skilled? As you have only asked for support and additional backup, your comanaged team thinks your internal team is highly qualified to handle any and all IT setbacks. This causes unforeseen hindrances in your business operations. Advantages of Fully Managed Services With fully managed services, you hand over your entire IT operations to experts. No need to worry about hiring, training, or managing an in-house team. Here are some benefits that you should know about: 24/7 Round-the-Clock Service Everything is handled, from monitoring and security to backups and support. It’s a stress-free option, especially for small businesses without a dedicated IT department. You get 24/7 service that keeps the network proactive and ensures maximum uptime. Predictable Costs One of the largest advantages of a fully managed IT service is the predetermined fixed monthly fee. This allows cost optimization and enables businesses to avoid any costs affiliated with on-demand IT services. Disadvantages of Fully Managed Services With fully managed IT services, you get a lot of benefits, but there are some disadvantages that you should know: Less control over decisions The main drawback is the lack of direct control. Since an external provider runs the show, you’ll need to fully trust them with your systems and data. More Expensive Another disadvantage you could face is that it might be more expensive than other models, especially if you don’t need full-time support. What Happens in the First 90 Days with a Managed IT Provider? Managed IT services make it easier to understand how the onboarding process works. They give a clear idea of what to expect, showing the timeline, key steps, who does what, and common successes that clients usually experience. This is how the first 90 days go: Similarities of Fully Managed vs. Co-Managed IT Services Both services aim to make your IT more efficient and secure. Both co-managed IT services vs managed IT services provide you with access to professional support, improved uptime, better cybersecurity, and predictable costs. The key difference lies in how much control you want to keep in-house. How to Select the Right IT Service Model Start by evaluating your current IT setup. Do you have a team in place that just needs support? Co-managed might be the way to go. If you’re starting from scratch or want to offload everything, fully managed is likely the better choice. Think about your budget, your goals, and how involved you want to be. Who Should Consider a Fully Managed IT Solution? This is ideal for small to medium-sized businesses that don’t have a full-time IT staff. It’s also great for companies that want to focus more on growing their business rather than handling tech issues. Basically, if you want peace of mind, this is a solid choice. Who Should Consider a Co-Managed IT Solution? If you already have an IT team but they’re overloaded or need specialized skills, co-managed is a smart move. It’s also good for companies that want to scale without fully outsourcing their IT or losing control over day-to-day operations. So, What's Right for Your Business: Fully Managed vs. Co-Managed IT Services? Analyze your organization's unique requirements to choose the service model that aligns most effectively with your goals. Keep in mind that co-managed services focus on specific IT functions or projects, whereas fully managed services provide comprehensive IT management and support. When deciding between Fully Managed vs. Co-Managed IT Services, consider your organization's distinct requirements and available resources. Partner up with Arpatech and let’s decide what’s best for your business together with the help of IT experts! Frequently Asked Questions 1. What are fully managed IT services? Fully managed IT services mean a professional team takes care of all your tech needs — from setting up your systems and keeping them running smoothly to protecting them from cyber threats. Think of it as having a full IT department on your side without needing to hire one in-house. 2. Does fully managed mean serverless? Not exactly. "Fully managed" means someone else is handling everything for you. "Serverless" is more about the technology, where your apps run in the cloud without you needing to manage servers. So, a service can be fully managed with or without being serverless. 3. What are the costs associated with fully managed vs. co-managed IT services? Costs vary, but here’s a rough idea: Fully Managed IT: Usually a higher monthly fee because the provider does everything, including monitoring, security, backups, updates, support, etc. Co-Managed IT: Costs less because you're sharing the workload, but you might still need in-house staff or tools. Pricing can depend on the size of your business, the number of users/devices, and the level of support you need. 4. Are fully managed IT services secure? Yes, in fact, security is a big part of what you’re paying for. A good managed service provider (MSP) will protect your business with tools like firewalls, antivirus, patching, and 24/7 monitoring. Just make sure to choose a provider with strong security practices. 5. What’s the average response time with your fully managed IT services? Most top-tier providers aim to respond within 15–30 minutes for urgent issues. For less critical stuff, it might be within a few hours. If your provider offers 24/7 support, you’ll get help anytime you need it. A well-maintained and reliable IT infrastructure is a necessity for organizations today. However, choosing the right service model can be challenging with many available options. You can either get co-managed IT services or fully managed IT services depending on which best suits your organization’s requirements. Now, let’s see the insights ourselves to determine the best course of action for your enterprise by answering a few well-intended questions: What are Co-Managed IT Services? When your IT infrastructure is strong, it can lead to humongous success. Merge your in-house IT division with external tech experts, who will help improve your technological capabilities and take your business to another level. Co-managed IT services are designed for organizations that already have a well-functioning IT department but need some support in either outsourcing services or some in-house projects. When organizations partner up with external IT teams, their internal teams are released to focus on core organizational goals. Some services that are offered within a co-managed IT system are: Help Desk Support System administration and infrastructure management Cloud support Network support and management Backup and disaster recovery management Hardware procurement Vendor support and management Strategic tech consulting What are Fully Managed IT Services? Collaborate with an external IT service partner and trust them with your entire tech architecture. With fully managed IT services, you get an extensive suite of IT management services that your organization may have lacked. These fully managed IT services are designed for businesses that do not have an internal IT department or would like to outsource most of their IT needs. From strategic planning to infrastructure management, the IT service providers take over every part of your technology needs and ensure that your IT environment remains secure and optimal at all times. Fully managed IT services offer: Infrastructure and Network Management Backup and Disaster Recovery Management 24/7 Helpdesk and Support IT Strategy and Consulting Cloud Services and Security Benefits of Managed IT Services If you're looking for reliable and efficient technology support, with managed IT services, you can doubtlessly get that and a wide range of benefits as well. Here are a few advantages that we think can convince you to get system support for your business! Lesser Responsibilities and IT Worries Managed IT service providers take away all your tech-related worries, enabling you to focus on the core activities within your enterprise. They manage your IT infrastructure and make sure that all technology works seamlessly without ever interrupting business. No Accumulated IT Internal Costs With no internal teams needed when you have a partnership with an external IT service provider, you accumulate close to no expense on your tech operations. 24/7 Experts on Call Most managed service providers have a pool of highly qualified and experienced IT technicians on deck. Therefore, no matter how many times you face a tech-related problem, you'll be connected to a skilled IT expert every time. So, What's Right for Your Business? Analyze your organization's unique requirements to choose the service model that aligns most effectively with your goals. Keep in mind that co-managed services focus on specific IT functions or projects, whereas fully managed services provide comprehensive IT management and support. When deciding between these options, consider your organization's distinct requirements and available resources. Partner up with Arpatech and let’s decide what’s best for your business together with the help of IT experts! In this digital transformation era, businesses face the constant challenge of keeping their applications relevant, efficient, and scalable. Legacy systems, while critical to operations, often become congested and hinder innovation and agility. Application modernization is the solution, enabling organizations to update their existing systems to align with current technologies and business needs. Artificial Intelligence (AI) has emerged as a game-changer in this field, offering powerful tools and methodologies to accelerate and optimize the modernization process. Here, we’ll explore how AI is reshaping application modernization and why it’s becoming an indispensable tool for organizations seeking to stay competitive. How AI Enhances Application Modernization AI is revolutionizing application modernization by automating complex processes, improving decision-making, and uncovering insights that were previously difficult to achieve. Here's how AI is contributing to this transformation: Cloud Migration Assistance Migrating applications to the cloud is a critical component of modernization. AI can assess application dependencies, workloads, and data flows to recommend the most efficient migration paths. It can also predict potential issues and offer solutions, ensuring a smoother transition to cloud environments. Code Analysis and Optimization AI tools can analyze legacy code to identify inefficiencies, outdated practices, and potential vulnerabilities. By automating code refactoring, AI reduces the time and effort required to optimize applications, ensuring they perform better on modern platforms. Intelligent Automation AI-driven automation tools streamline repetitive tasks, such as testing, deployment, and monitoring. By integrating machine learning models, these tools can proactively detect and resolve performance issues, reducing downtime and enhancing system reliability. Improved User Experience AI can analyze user behavior and feedback to suggest enhancements to application interfaces and workflows. By personalizing user experiences and making systems more intuitive, AI ensures that modernized applications meet and exceed user expectations. Enhanced Security and Compliance Modernizing applications often involves adhering to new security standards and compliance requirements. AI-powered systems can monitor applications for suspicious activity, identify vulnerabilities, and ensure compliance with industry regulations in real time. Key Benefits of AI-Driven Application Modernization Speed and Efficiency AI accelerates modernization processes by automating tasks like code review, testing, and deployment. Cost Savings By reducing manual effort and operational inefficiencies, AI lowers the overall cost of modernization projects. Scalability: AI helps design applications that can scale seamlessly with business growth and changing demands. Risk Mitigation: AI predicts potential issues and provides solutions, minimizing the risk of disruptions during modernization. Future-Proofing: AI enables applications to adapt to evolving technologies, ensuring they remain relevant for years to come. Real-World Applications of AI in Modernization Many organizations have already started leveraging AI for application modernization. For instance, companies use AI-driven tools like IBM Watson or Google Cloud AI to optimize cloud migration processes. Others employ AI to automate DevOps workflows, enabling faster and more reliable deployments. AI is also playing a pivotal role in improving data management systems, transforming them to handle real-time analytics and machine learning workloads efficiently. In Conclusion AI empowers businesses to transform their legacy systems into strong, future-ready applications by automating complex processes, enhancing decision-making, and delivering insights. As AI continues to evolve, its role in application modernization will become even more significant, paving the way for smarter, more efficient IT ecosystems. If you’re embarking on a modernization journey, integrating AI into your strategy could be the key to unlocking unprecedented levels of success. Are you ready to leverage the power of AI for your application modernization efforts? Connect with Arpatech today! In today’s fast-paced world, businesses need to stay ahead by embracing new technology. Moving to the cloud and updating your applications is a game-changing way to boost efficiency, optimize costs, and promote innovation. But without a clear plan, it can feel overwhelming. Here’s an easy-to-follow guide to help you smoothly migrate to cloud architecture and modernize your apps. Your Guide: Here are some steps to follow when you are shifting your business to the cloud architecture: Take Stock of What You Have Before jumping into the cloud, spend some time understanding your current setup. Think about what systems and applications are outdated and which ones are ready for the cloud. Identify those that need extra work and pinpoint the challenges you’re facing right now. Consider who in your organization will be most affected by this change. Using tools to map out how your systems interact can give you a clearer picture of where to start. Set Your Goals and Make a Plan Be clear about why you’re making this move. Are you trying to cut down on costs, make your apps faster and more reliable, scale up to handle more users, or improve security and meet compliance requirements? Based on your goals, decide whether you’ll use public, private, or hybrid cloud solutions. Choose a cloud provider like AWS, Azure, or Google Cloud that fits your needs. Finally, determine how you’ll migrate—whether by lifting and shifting, tweaking apps, or completely rebuilding them. Build a Step-by-Migration Plan A good plan makes everything easier. Start by prioritizing your most critical applications and setting realistic deadlines for each phase. Plan for costs and include some extra for unexpected expenses. Think about what could go wrong and prepare solutions in advance. Automation tools can help speed up this process and reduce errors, making your plan more efficient. Get Your Team Ready Moving to the cloud isn’t just about technology; it’s about people too. Make sure your team is ready by offering training on cloud tools and platforms. Clearly assign roles and responsibilities to avoid confusion. If your team needs extra support, don’t hesitate to bring in outside help or consultants. Test the Waters with a Pilot Start small by migrating a less critical application. This allows you to see how well your plan works and fix any issues in a low-pressure setting. It’s a great way to learn lessons that will make the larger migration smoother and more successful. Migrate Your Applications When you’re ready for the full migration, choose the best approach for each application. Rehosting involves moving apps as they are. Refactoring means updating apps to use cloud-native features. Replatforming involves making small tweaks to improve performance in the cloud. After migration, thoroughly test everything to ensure it’s working as expected. Modernize Your Applications Modernizing your apps lets you get the most out of the cloud. You can use containers, like Docker, to make apps portable and scalable. Breaking down large apps into smaller, independent pieces with microservices is another option. Serverless computing, with services like AWS Lambda, allows you to run code without worrying about servers. Additionally, implementing DevOps practices can help automate updates for faster and more reliable deployments. Monitor and Improve Your Cloud Setup Once everything is in the cloud, keep an eye on how it’s working. Focus on tracking costs with tools to find savings and monitor performance using platforms like CloudWatch or Azure Monitor. Regularly update your security practices to stay compliant with regulations and protect your data. Conclusion Moving to the cloud and modernizing your applications doesn’t have to be intimidating. With a solid plan, a prepared team, and the right tools, you can make the transition smoothly and set your business up for success. Remember, this journey is about more than just technology, it’s about creating a foundation for growth and innovation. You want expert advice and experience? Contact the cloud team at Arpatech and take advantage of our free consultation. When discussing big data, it often seems like a tool reserved for large organizations. But what if we told you that you, as a small or medium-sized business (SMB), can also use data analytics for SMBs to achieve exponential success? Yes, you have the data, and yes, you can track customer behavior analytics to improve your business. By organizing the data that already exists in your database, you can leave intuition-driven decisions behind and make factual, data-backed choices. Major Gains of Data Analytics for SMBs One of the most significant benefits of using data analytics is making informed business decisions, which reduces uncertainty. Data analysis enables you to improve operational efficiency by examining the information you already have. It’s a game-changer that allows SMBs to save money and understand their customers better – all at once. Today, different industries are using data science analytics that has helped them create products and services tailored to their consumers’ requirements. From optimizing your marketing strategies to streamlining your operations, the insights provided by data analytics for SMBs can drive growth and profitability. Moreover, data analytics helps SMBs uncover hidden opportunities. By analyzing patterns and trends, businesses can identify new markets, better understand their competition, and even anticipate future challenges. Predictive analytics, in particular, empowers SMBs to prepare for the future, allowing them to stay ahead in a dynamic market. Types of Data Analytics for SMBs Most businesses rely on data to market their products and services. Rather than worrying about having too little data, many businesses struggle with managing the sheer volume of information they collect. Here are three critical types of data analytics for cloud that SMBs can focus on: Financial Data Monitoring your organization’s financial health is crucial for staying competitive. By analyzing financial data, SMBs can track sales trends, manage expenses, and maintain a robust financial position. This allows businesses to stay ahead of the competition. Examples: Income statements and balance sheets Budgeting and expense reports Tax records Accounts receivable and payable Financial analytics can also assist in forecasting. By examining historical data, improve business decisions with analytics, predict future revenue streams, and plan budgets accordingly. This proactive approach minimizes financial risks and ensures resources are allocated efficiently. Operational Data Operational data sheds light on the daily activities of your business. Analyzing this data ensures your operations are running smoothly and efficiently, leading to better performance and productivity. Examples: Inventory records Sales transactions Employee schedules Supply chain and logistics Operational analytics provides valuable insights into bottlenecks and inefficiencies. For example, tracking inventory levels can help businesses avoid stock shortages or excess while monitoring employee schedules ensures optimal workforce utilization. Organizing data into these categories helps SMBs streamline processes, improve customer relationships, and make data-driven decisions with confidence. Steps to Take for Data and Predictive Analytics for Small Businesses Here, are steps that you can follow in order to learn how to grow a small business using data analytics: Define Your Objectives Start by identifying the specific business challenges you aim to address with data analytics. For example, are you trying to reduce customer churn, optimize marketing campaigns, or improve inventory management? Collect and Organize Data Gather data from all available sources, including customer interactions, sales records, and website analytics. Categorize this data into marketing, financial, and operational categories for better clarity. Choose the Right Tools Select the best analytics tools for small businesses and data management platforms for medium-sized enterprises. These tools should align with your budget and offer the features you need, such as data visualization, reporting, and predictive modeling. Analyze and Interpret Data Use analytics tools to generate insights from your data. Look for patterns, trends, and anomalies that can inform your decision-making. Implement Insights Act on the insights gained from your data analysis. For example, if data reveals that certain products are underperforming, consider revising your pricing or promotional strategies. Monitor and Refine Continuously track your performance metrics to assess the impact of your data-driven strategies. Don’t hesitate to refine your approach as needed to achieve better results. Improve Business Decisions with Analytics Tools for SMBs Analytics tools are indispensable for SMBs looking to make data-driven decisions. Here are some of the best analytics tools tailored to small businesses: Google Analytics: Ideal for tracking website traffic and user behavior. QuickBooks: A financial management tool that provides insights into your business’s financial health. Zoho Analytics: Offers advanced reporting and data visualization features. Tableau: A powerful data visualization tool that simplifies complex data. HubSpot: It is an excellent tool for managing and analyzing marketing data. These tools help SMBs uncover actionable insights using technology like predictive cloud maintenance without requiring extensive technical expertise, making data analytics more accessible and affordable. Customer Behavior Analytics for Data-Driven Decision-Making Understanding your customers’ behavior is pivotal for SMB growth. Customer behavior analytics focuses on examining how customers interact with your business, from their purchasing habits to their feedback and preferences. Here’s how you can use this data: Personalized Marketing: Use customer data to create customized marketing campaigns that resonate with specific segments of your audience. Enhanced Customer Experience: Analyze feedback and behavior to identify pain points and improve your products or services. Loyalty Programs: Reward customers based on their purchasing patterns to promote loyalty and increase repeat business. By combining customer behavior data with predictive analytics, SMBs can also anticipate future trends and proactively meet customer needs. This forward-thinking approach not only boosts customer satisfaction but also strengthens brand loyalty. Real-World Data Solutions for SMBs Some practical examples of how data analytics for SMBs are being used to grow their businesses: E-commerce Online retailers use predictive analytics to forecast demand and optimize inventory levels, reducing overstock and stockouts. Hospitality Small hotel chains analyze customer reviews to identify common complaints and improve their services. Retail Local stores utilize marketing data to design targeted promotions, increasing foot traffic and sales. Healthcare Healthcare clinics monitor operational data in order to streamline patient scheduling and reduce wait times. Additionally, SMBs in industries like manufacturing can use predictive maintenance to minimize equipment downtime, while logistics companies can optimize delivery routes using operational analytics. Challenges and How to Overcome Them Despite the benefits, SMBs may face challenges in implementing data analytics. These include limited budgets, lack of expertise, data privacy concerns, and the overwhelming volume of data. Budget Constraints Limited budgets can make it challenging for SMBs to adopt data analytics solutions. SMBs often worry about the high costs of software, tools, and personnel required to implement a strong analytics strategy. To overcome this, explore affordable data analytics for small businesses like Google Analytics or Microsoft Power BI. Begin by prioritizing essential analytics areas, such as marketing or financial data, to focus resources effectively. By starting small and scaling gradually, businesses can balance the costs and benefits of data analytics. Lack of Expertise Many SMBs lack in-house expertise in data analytics, making it difficult to interpret data and extract actionable insights. This skill gap can hinder the successful implementation of analytics initiatives. Address this challenge by investing in training programs for your team. Providing basic training on analytics tools helps employees build confidence and proficiency in data-driven decision-making. Alternatively, consider hiring a consultant or outsourcing complex projects to experienced professionals who can guide your analytics journey. Data Privacy Concerns Handling sensitive customer and business data comes with the risk of breaches or non-compliance with regulations like GDPR or CCPA. These concerns can deter SMBs from fully embracing data analytics. Mitigate these risks by implementing strong data protection measures, such as encryption, multi-factor authentication, and access controls. Regularly update your security protocols to stay ahead of evolving threats. Additionally, maintain transparency with customers about how their data is collected and used to build trust and promote long-term relationships. Overwhelming Data Volume Managing large datasets can be daunting for SMBs. The sheer volume of data collected from various sources can lead to confusion and inefficiency. Simplify this process by starting with one data category at a time, such as marketing or operational data. Use user-friendly tools that offer intuitive dashboards and automated reports to streamline data analysis. Gradually expand your analytics efforts as your team becomes more comfortable working with data. By addressing these challenges strategically, SMBs can unlock the full potential of data analytics and pave the way for sustainable growth. Conclusion Data analytics for SMBs is no longer a luxury but a necessity in today’s competitive landscape. By leveraging data-driven strategies, small and medium-sized businesses can make informed decisions, enhance customer experiences, and drive growth. With the right tools and a structured approach, even the smallest businesses can unlock the power of data analytics and thrive in a data-driven world. Start organizing and analyzing your data today with industry experts to uncover insights that will shape the future of your business. FAQs How do I get started with Data analytics for my business? The first of point of action should be to understand the quality and quantity of the data that you hold. The significance of the data your business already possesses. A data discovery workshop is the step in the right direction and you’ll get all your questions answered. Why is data analytics for SMBs important? Data analytics is more than simply presenting numbers and statistics to management. It encompasses various components, including, machine learning, predictive analytics, and business intelligence. The focus is on exploring and understanding the data to gain insights that inform actionable decisions. What qualities are essential for a successful analytics project? Data analytics demands a comprehensive approach, involving meticulous recording, thorough analysis, detailed examination of data, and presenting insights through clear and visually engaging formats. To ensure the success of a data project, it is crucial to lead by example, establish strong leadership from the top, and designate a dedicated data champion as the central point of contact for all data-related matters. SMEs facilitate economic growth; however, many of these organizations find themselves impaired by complex regulatory issues. Here compliance management companies come into play and help SMEs overcome these barriers to stay compliant while also giving them trust and credibility in the eyes of clients. Introduction To Implementing Compliance Strategies in SMEs: Because of compliance management companies combined experience in the field of providing SMEs with compliance on an extremely broad horizon via digital solutions, automation, and consulting, Arpatech can help SMEs avoid penalties, operational disruptions, and reputational risk. The following highlights specific strategies and tools that compliance management firms can use to support SMEs in implementing sound compliance frameworks while adapting to regulatory changes Why do the Compliance Strategies for SMEs Matter? Compliance is not merely about obeying regulations but also a strategic weapon to enhance business resilience. The penalties for not keeping a proper compliance structure in the over-regulated sectors may be heavy fines, lawsuits, and damage to reputation; therefore, regulation compliance should be in the SME mindset. By supporting compliance best practices, SMEs will: Reduce financial and operational risks. Build trust with their clients and partners. Gain an edge over competitors within their sectors. It is good for your firm if the clients are encouraged to invest in compliance solutions that may protect their businesses; this will emphasize the value of your own expertise in the sector. Key Compliance Areas for SMEs Understanding the regulatory landscape is crucial for SMEs, as compliance obligations vary by industry, region, and operational scope. Your firm can help SMEs navigate key areas such as: Financial Compliance: Tax reporting, anti-money laundering (AML), and record-keeping Employment Laws: Wage policies, workplace safety, and discrimination laws Secure Data Management: Adherence to GDPR, HIPAA, or CCPA regulations Environmental Standards: Compliance with local and international sustainability laws Industry-Specific Regulations: Healthcare, manufacturing, and fintech compliance Mapping these regulations to business processes helps SMEs adopt a structured approach to compliance and stay ahead of regulatory changes. Building a Compliance Checklist for SMEs A well-structured compliance checklist for SMEs helps them stay on track. In order for SMEs to thrive, here’s a checklist for them to follow: Identify and document applicable laws and regulations Maintain up-to-date policies, licenses, and certifications Train employees on compliance and ethical practices Conduct regular internal audits and performance reviews Implement incident response protocols to address breaches Establish anonymous reporting channels for compliance concerns By promoting these best practices, compliance management firms position themselves as invaluable partners in risk mitigation and operational efficiency. How SMEs Can Stay Compliant with Regulations Staying compliant need not be a hurdle. Some of the proven compliance tips for small businesses are here. Stay Updated Keeping a constant eye on changing norms in the regulatory frameworks for small businesses can go a long way toward keeping you compliant. Subscribing to relevant newsletters, attending seminars, and networking with industry associations will help you keep in the loop. Use Compliance Tools Invest in compliance tools meant for SMEs and ensure these are application modernization strategies used in streamlining tracking, reporting, and auditing in your existing software. These tools can save valuable time while minimizing the possibility of error. Automate Tasks Automation of compliance functions, such as tax filing, employee training, and statutory data reporting, contributes to less human error and greater turnaround time. Seek Expertise Consult with a legal or compliance consultant to help traverse complicated regulations. This would provide insights that help identify blind spots in your compliance strategy. Designation of Compliance Officer The delegation of responsibilities, even with one person on a compliance team in a small business, ensures accountability for compliance efforts. The Best Tools for Managing Compliance Strategies for SMEs Technology can simplify compliance management, making it more accessible for SMEs. . As with these tools for compliance, there can also be a software package for cloud infrastructure management. Your firm can recommend industry-leading compliance tools such as: Compliance Management Software Programs such as ComplyAdvantage or VComply help with things like policy management, incident tracking, and audits. These platforms make it possible for SMEs to centralize compliance documentation and automate the repeating activities of a compliance program; thus, allowing for a structured and efficient approach. Document Tracking Tools The DocuSign or PandaDoc solution will help update and provide easy access to all critical documents. The tool also allows for electronic signatures and version control, thus making documentation requirements that much easier to keep organized and compliant. Risk Management Platforms RiskWatch or Resolver are some of the platforms used to identify, assess, and mitigate compliance risks. These platforms give visual risk mapping, incident reporting, and real-time analytics so businesses can go after probable issues upfront. Payroll and HR Tools Such instruments as Gusto and BambooHR reduce employee law compliance concerns through payroll, benefits, and maintenance of employee records. They ensure compliance with laws regarding wage payments, tax filings, and regulations governing workplaces, thereby reducing administrative burdens. Cybersecurity Solutions Recommending Arpatech, Norton Small Business, and Bitdefender, who protect sensitive data from breaches and cyber threats can offer excellent solutions to your SME clients. They also offer solutions including features like malware protection, encryption, and compliance with data protection laws such as GDPR and CCPA. Audit and Monitoring Software Applications like Netwrix or AuditBoard allow SMEs to conduct regular compliance audits and monitor ongoing adherence to regulatory standards. They provide detailed reports and actionable insights to close compliance gaps. Encouraging SMEs to adopt these solutions enhances their compliance framework, while reinforcing the role of your firm in identifying and implementing the right tools. Project Management Compliance tools for SMEs Platforms like Trello and Asana can be customized to include compliance checklists, task assignments, and deadlines, ensuring nothing slips through the cracks. Using these tools, not only can compliance strategies for SMEs be streamlined but also build a resilient foundation for growth and sustainability. How to Handle Compliance Challenges in SMEs? Despite the benefits, SMEs often struggle with limited resources, lack of expertise, and evolving regulations. Compliance management firms can help SMEs address these challenges by: Recommending scalable and cost-effective compliance tools Offering customized training programs to enhance internal expertise Providing structured compliance roadmaps to manage regulatory requirements efficiently Encouraging flexible compliance budgets to accommodate regulatory changes Promoting a compliance-driven corporate culture within SMEs By positioning your firm as a strategic advisor, you can support SMEs in proactively managing their compliance obligations. Compliance and Risk Management for Small Enterprises A strong compliance framework is incomplete without an integrated risk management for small enterprises strategy. Your firm can help SMEs mitigate risks through: Risk Assessment: Identify and evaluate the weighted risks behind non-compliance: financial (penalties), reputational (harm), and operational (disruption). Risk Mitigation Plans: These should be devised to minimize these risks: audits, training of the personnel, encryption of data, etc. Insurance Policies: Assess liability insurance that can offset some fines related to compliance actions. Incident Response: Set up an entire plan for addressing the infringement of compliance, notification, and remedies to be taken. Aligning risk management with compliance strengthens SME resilience and ensures long-term sustainability. Making Compliance Affordable for SMEs Cost is a major factor in SME compliance adoption. Your firm can assist SMEs in cost-effective compliance management by: Recommending free or budget-friendly tools such as Zoho or Trello Facilitating peer partnerships for shared compliance training Identifying government grants and subsidies for compliance support Prioritizing compliance areas with the highest risks to optimize resource allocation By demonstrating cost-effective compliance strategies, your firm can make regulatory adherence more attainable for SMEs. Partnering with Arpatech for Scalable Compliance Solutions Compliance management firms seeking to enhance their service offerings can leverage Arpatech’s expertise in: Cloud-based compliance automation Data security and regulatory adherence tools Custom compliance software solutions tailored for SMEs End-to-end risk management consulting By collaborating with Arpatech, your firm can offer SMEs cutting-edge compliance solutions, strengthening your reputation as a trusted compliance advisor. Conclusion Effective compliance management is a key differentiator for SMEs, offering not just legal protection but also a strategic advantage. As a compliance management firm, you have the opportunity to guide SMEs in adopting best practices, leveraging technology, and mitigating risks. By partnering with Arpatech, you can provide SMEs with seamless compliance solutions, ensuring their long-term success while reinforcing your firm’s value as a leading compliance partner. Ready to enhance SME compliance? Connect with Arpatech today and unlock scalable compliance solutions for your clients. FAQs Why is a compliance strategy important for my small business? The compliance strategy is a set of procedures, practices, and policies that the organization follows that meet all regulatory, ethical, and legal standards. Compliance strategies for SMEs are essential for organizations so that they may avoid all sorts of reputational, financial, or legal damage. At the same time, following these strategies helps build trust and loyalty with customers and stakeholders. How can SMEs prioritize compliance efforts? In prioritizing compliance efforts, SMEs will be required to identify the regulations affecting their industry and prioritize those that represent the highest risks, such as data protection, financial reporting, and labor laws. Hence they should divert their resources appropriately to tackle the most pressing issues of compliance. How can I ensure employee compliance with all policies? The following actions could be taken to ensure compliance strategies for SMEs are adhered to by all employees: Conduct awareness and training programs Clarified penalties for non-compliance An organization culture oriented towards compliance ensures adherence Monitoring and auditing on a regular basis keep track of adherence to policies How does Arpatech support SME compliance? Arpatech works with the best compliance automation companies, offers cybersecurity solutions, and expert consulting to help SMEs stay compliant effortlessly. As organizations rely heavily on technology, the importance of efficient IT support systems has grown exponentially. The skilled IT support specialists also exemplify this evolution, offering unmatched expertise in troubleshooting and resolving IT-related issues to ensure seamless business operations. Here, we delve into the modern IT help desk support ticketing system and explore how it has adapted to meet the challenges of the future. What is an IT Support Ticketing System? There is always a bug that needs fixing in the IT and software department. Here, the IT support ticketing system comes into play. It’s a software solution developed to manage, resolve, and optimize the process of tracking and documenting all IT-related requests and issues. This system acts as a centralized platform for the support team to select, prioritize, and resolve all user-reported incidents, which ensures that every bug or issue is addressed. There are two types of IT services: Fully Managed vs Co-managed IT services. When a company fully manages its IT infrastructure, it’s called fully managed, whereas if they outsource half of their IT tasks to experts, it’s called Co-managed IT services. The Role of IT Help Desk Support An effective IT help desk support system is the backbone of smooth business processes. Expert IT specialists provide first-level support for a wide range of software and hardware concerns which include: Technical Assistance: Resolve end-user issues quickly and efficiently. Troubleshooting: Identify and address software and hardware malfunctions. System Monitoring: Proactively oversee IT systems and infrastructure to prevent downtime. IT teams are committed to swift issue resolution, allowing your employees to remain focused on their core responsibilities, and enabling them to drive productivity and operational efficiency. What are the Three Types of Tickets in an IT Ticketing System? In a typical tech support ticketing system, there are three main categories of ticket resolutions: Incident Tickets So many unanticipated problems and disruptions occur in a system. They could either be a software glitch or a hardware malfunction. With incident tickets you can record and resolve them in time, their purpose is to address issues timely, fix them, and allow users to return operations to normal promptly. Service Request Tickets These requests are planned IT tasks that are mostly repetitive and don’t require fixing any urgent request. Some service request tickets include hardware upgrades, software installation, access permissions, and resetting passwords. These service requests are resolved according to pre-planned prioritizations and are less urgent than incident tickets. Change Request Tickets When big changes need to be implemented that’s when change request tickets are generated. These change tickets are made to register, suggest, and request changes to the IT systems, infrastructure, and procedures, like, hardware substitutions, software upgrades, laptop configurations, or any other modification that brings change to the IT environment can be counted in these tickets. These changes are not conducted on a whim, they are planned, tested, and approved before any implementation in order to keep the system maintained and stabilized. What is the Need for an IT Help Desk Support Ticketing System? As mentioned before, IT ticketing software helps support teams in managing customer queries and issues more efficiently. It enables all requests to be gathered on one dashboard, allowing IT specialists to prioritize and help each customer effortlessly. Some more reasons why your business might need an IT help desk ticketing system are as follows: An IT ticketing software enables IT experts to manage a significant amount of requests in a centralized method. They are also able to gather all interactions in one place and keep all client records effortlessly. With IT help desk support, you can efficiently get to each query and ultimately increase customer satisfaction. Most ticketing systems feature powerful automation tools that reduce repetitive tasks, freeing up valuable time for your support tech team. Key Features of the Modern Ticketing System The ticketing system has undergone significant advancements to cater to the evolving needs of businesses. The latest ticketing processes are designed for speed, accuracy, and transparency. Here’s how they work: 1. Ticket Creation The journey begins when a user encounters an issue. Tickets can be created: Automatically: Through system alerts or integrated software. Manually: By the end-user or a support agent via email, chat, or phone. Each ticket is logged into the system with essential details such as issue type, urgency level, and contact information. 2. Ticket Processing Once a ticket is created, it is processed and categorized based on: Issue Type: Software, hardware, network, or infrastructure. Urgency Level: Critical (needs immediate attention) or routine. For straightforward Level 1 (L1) issues, automation tools often provide instant solutions. More complex problems are escalated to Level 2 (L2) or Level 3 (L3) support agents for specialized attention. 3. Ticket Resolution The resolution process involves the following: L1 issues are resolved quickly by front-line support agents. Complex L2 or L3 tickets are assigned to experts with specialized knowledge. If necessary, tickets are escalated further to ensure timely and effective resolution. 4. User Notification After resolving the issue, users receive a notification detailing the outcome. The ticket’s status is updated to reflect its closure, providing transparency and assurance to the end user-. What are the Benefits of Having an IT Help Desk Support Ticketing System? The IT Help Desk Support Ticketing System has numerous benefits to offer for businesses and organizations. Here are some of its major benefits: Centralized Issue Tracking It logs all IT issues and requests in a single centralized system for easy management, tracking, and resolution of problems efficiently. Shorter Time to Resolution The ticketing system prioritizes different issues, making sure urgent ones are attended to first so that their resolution might come quickly. Enhanced Organization and Accountability It ensures accountability among support teams by keeping a clear record of who is working on which issue and makes sure that no issue is left unattended. Better Communication It offers a communication path for users to communicate with IT, providing status updates and receiving feedback on the progress of tickets. It enables us to handle large-scale projects like Global IT procurement companies effortlessly. Streamlined Problem Resolution Problems can be categorized, tagged, and routed to relevant experts, optimizing the speed and accuracy of problem resolution. Historical Data and Reporting The system retains historical data on issues and resolutions so that teams can analyze trends, recurring issues, and improve processes along the way. Enhanced Experience for Users Users are allowed to lodge their tickets at any time, track their progress, and receive prompt replies for an overall positive support experience. Self-Service The ticketing system often provides integration with a knowledge base or FAQs for allowing users to fix common issues by themselves without requiring direct support. Proactive Monitoring Some advanced ticketing systems integrate with monitoring tools to generate tickets automatically concerning potential issues before they impact users thereby enabling proactive resolution. Let’s look at trends that we are looking forward to in the upcoming years in the IT help Desk Support industry. Looking Ahead: What Trends Do We See in IT Help Desk Support As we move beyond 2025, the IT help desk ticketing system will continue to evolve, incorporating innovative technologies such as: AI-Powered Automation AI chatbots and virtual assistants will handle routine queries, freeing up human agents for complex issues. Predictive Analytics Advanced analytics will predict potential IT failures, allowing teams to address problems proactively. Enhanced User Experience Improved interfaces and real-time updates will ensure users stay informed and satisfied. Integrated Systems Seamless integration with collaboration tools like Slack and Microsoft Teams will streamline support requests. So, looking at 2025 and beyond, an efficient IT help desk ticketing system is no longer a luxury, it’s a necessity. It looks like different companies will take different directions, if you want to adhere to all IT services with your company you can go for staff augmentation or Managed services would allow you to outsource with specialists. With the expertise of Arpatech’s IT support specialists and our state-of-the-art ticketing system, businesses can stay ahead of challenges and focus on growth. Let’s partner on your next project today! Frequently Asked Questions What does an IT help desk support do? IT help desk support offers technical assistance to clients, and resolves software, hardware, and all kinds of network issues. It includes answering queries, troubleshooting problems and offering solutions via the ticketing system. What is the scope of IT helpdesk support? There is a lot of scope for IT helpdesk support which includes issue diagnosis, software installation, hardware setup, network support, user training, maintaining infrastructure and overseeing all documentation for resolutions. How many help desk staff per user? Mostly, One help desk staff member can support 50-70 users in small to medium-sized organizations, while larger enterprises may need One staff member for every 100-150 users, depending on the complexity and support level required In today’s digital era, industries heavily rely on technology to drive operations, enhance productivity, and deliver exceptional customer experiences. This includes managed IT services for the healthcare industry. Two critical components of managed IT services are Help Desk Support and Incident Management, which collectively form the backbone of IT problem-solving and infrastructure management. Here’s a closer look at how these services empower the healthcare industry to thrive in a tech-driven landscape. Managed IT Services for Healthcare What You Need to Know Severe healthcare labor shortages and rising costs threaten the elimination or outsourcing of clinical data analysis and other non-clinical functions. This approach also poses risks to long-term outcomes, as IT and data specialists play a crucial role in monitoring an organization’s quality performance, financial priorities, and return on investment (ROI). Some researchers highlight that growth, technology, and workforce are top strategic priorities for chief executives and key factors contributing to hospital affordability challenges. Health systems are actively seeking solutions. Urgent measures are needed to address the ongoing labor crisis and manage the anticipated rise in healthcare costs, as they are projected to reach $370 billion by 2027. Here, managed IT services for healthcare come into saving lives. IT specialists help hospitals and other businesses grow, innovate and transform. Why Use Managed IT Services for Healthcare Providers? Let’s explore how IT-managed services for healthcare support hospitals and other related organizations in innovating their infrastructure, improving their financial standing, and increasing their ROI by solving all tech issues. Help Desk Support: The First Line of Defense The Help Desk serves as the frontline for resolving IT-related issues, offering healthcare providers and staff immediate assistance with their technical challenges. Managed IT services for healthcare focus on troubleshooting and resolving software and hardware malfunctions promptly. This ensures that system errors affecting patient care are addressed effectively and functionality is restored quickly. As a first-level support system, the Help Desk handles routine issues, enabling medical professionals to resume their tasks with minimal downtime. Whether healthcare staff or administrators encounter technical problems, they can rely on this immediate support to resolve issues efficiently. Additionally, Help Desk teams assist end-users by guiding them in the effective use of electronic health records (EHRs), telemedicine tools, and cloud-based applications. Proactive monitoring of IT systems ensures that potential issues are identified and resolved before they escalate. For remote healthcare professionals, managed IT services for healthcare industry extend support via phone consultations, email assistance, and remote desktop tools, ensuring uninterrupted patient care. Incident Management: Restoring Operations Swiftly Incident Management complements Help Desk Support by focusing on addressing IT disruptions efficiently and minimizing their impact on healthcare operations. Managed IT services for the healthcare industry prioritizing detecting system alerts or user-reported issues. Incidents are then prioritized based on their severity, particularly when they impact critical medical systems, to allocate resources effectively and resolve them swiftly. In addition to addressing immediate concerns, Incident Management involves tracking and documenting incidents systematically. This approach enables healthcare facilities to analyze trends and implement preventive measures to reduce the likelihood of future disruptions. Insights gained from resolved incidents are used to enhance IT response strategies and system resilience, ensuring continuous and efficient patient care. Supporting End-Users with Account Management User Account Management is a vital aspect of managed IT services for healthcare providers, ensuring that healthcare professionals can access essential systems and applications without hurdles. It involves setting up and managing user accounts, including tasks like handling password resets and resolving access issues. The service also supports the onboarding and offboarding processes by managing account setups for new hires and terminating accounts for employees exiting the organization. By maintaining strict control over system access, this service enhances security while ensuring HIPAA compliance and operational efficiency. Ensuring Data Integrity: Backup and Disaster Recovery Patient data is valuable for healthcare organizations, and its protection is paramount. IT-managed services for healthcare assist medical institutions in planning and implementing strong backup strategies to safeguard against data loss or corruption. Backup systems are continuously monitored to ensure data integrity and availability, allowing for swift recovery when needed. With a well-executed disaster recovery plan, managed IT services for healthcare services help providers minimize downtime and mitigate risks, ensuring continuity of patient care even in the face of unexpected challenges such as cyberattacks or system failures. Network Management: Keeping Systems Connected A reliable network infrastructure is essential for smooth healthcare operations, and network management plays a central role in achieving this goal. Services of the network enterprise are always being monitored and maintained through the managed IT services for healthcare organizations ensure network performance, speed, and connectivity across the hospital or medical facility. Primary basic network connectivity problems are promptly resolved, all with minimal impact on the critical functions of healthcare. Additionally, Real-time alerts are handled through the Network Management Systems (NMS) to ensure that proactive measures are taken against each problem. Strong network management ensures uninterrupted communication between medical devices, patient monitoring systems, and healthcare teams, making it more effective for delivery in the patient care process. Desktop & Software Support: Improving Productivity in Managed IT Services for Healthcare Desktops and applications are essential tools for healthcare operations, and IT support teams ensure they function optimally. These teams will help with installation and configuration, and updating medical software, so health professionals always have the latest technology and tools to perform their necessary duties. By having IT teams manage the desktop configurations and user profiles, they create a personal experience in an efficient way that meets all healthcare requirements. However, when application-specific issues arise, such as those affecting electronic health record (EHR) systems, they troubleshoot to resolve problems quickly, allowing workflows to continue without interruption. function smoothly. Direct support enables medical professionals to handle patients without being bogged down with any immediate technical issues. Server Management: The Backbone of IT Infrastructure Servers provide the basic founding infrastructure towards the IT environment of an organization. Their management is one of the most imperative elements of continuity of healthcare. Managed IT services in the healthcare sector take care of the operating system, virtualization platform, and server applications to ensure that they run securely and efficiently in the healthcare environment. Proactive server maintenance helps prevent downtime and enhances overall system performance. With effective server management, healthcare organizations can scale their IT infrastructure seamlessly, adapting to evolving operational needs while ensuring data security and compliance with healthcare regulations. Managed IT Services for Healthcare: Enhancing Patient Care and Security Healthcare organizations require specialized IT support in terms of ensuring compliance, security, and efficient operations. Managed IT healthcare services enable hospitals and healthcare centers to streamline processes, thereby enhancing patient privacy and improving service delivery. With 24/7 IT support, continuous access to electronic health records (EHRs), telemedicine platforms, and patient management systems becomes a reality for health providers. Cybersecurity measures, for example, encryption and multi-factor authentication, also serve as safety nets against data breaches and compliance with regulations such as HIPAA. IT solutions in health care also provide seamless connections between medical devices and software, resulting in accurate data exchange. Well-timed system maintenance, backup solutions, and disaster recovery approaches guarantee business continuity and reduce downtime, thus improving overall patient care and operational efficiency. Conclusion Managed IT Services for Healthcare provide businesses with the tools and expertise needed to navigate IT challenges efficiently. These services deliver proactive solutions, technical guidance, and robust infrastructure management to empower organizations. By addressing technical issues, safeguarding data, and maintaining connectivity, Managed IT Support enables the healthcare industry to stay competitive and agile in an ever-evolving digital landscape. From troubleshooting problems to ensuring operational continuity, with experts at Arpatech, you can reach your goals in no time! Frequently Asked Questions What are IT-managed services for healthcare? IT-managed services for healthcare involve outsourcing IT operations to a third-party provider. These services include network management, cybersecurity, cloud computing, data backup, compliance with healthcare regulations, and management of electronic health records (EHR) systems. What is an example of IT managed service? A common example of an IT-managed service for healthcare is remote patient monitoring, where healthcare providers use IT systems to track patient data in real-time. Other examples include cybersecurity solutions that work to ensure protected patient data, cloud management of EHRs, and helpdesk for medical staff. What is the difference between MSP and VMS in healthcare? A VMS (Vendor Management System) is used to manage staffing, vendor relationships, and workforce solutions, primarily handling healthcare personnel rather than IT functions. An MSP (Managed Service Provider), on the other hand, focuses on security, system maintenance, and IT infrastructure, ensuring smooth IT operations in all medical facilities. What is the cost of outsourcing managed IT services? The cost of outsourcing managed IT services varies based on the size of the healthcare organization, the services required, and the provider. Typically, it can range from a few hundred dollars per user per month to several thousand dollars for comprehensive enterprise solutions. As businesses continue to evolve in the Middle East, ensuring secure and efficient User Access Management in Saudi Arabia or UAE becomes even more critical. With cyber threats looming on our heads, we never know when an account is safe and secure, therefore we need to manage accounts efficiently to ensure that the data in our organization remains safe. In this guide, we explore the key components, best practices, and future trends in user access management as we step into 2025 and beyond. But first, What is UAM (User Access Management)? Before we can learn about UAM, we need to touch up on IAM (Identity and Access Management), a set of policies, tools, and procedures responsible for providing the right access to the right resources. IAM also enables organizations to track and manage who has access to specific resources, granting and revoking permissions as needed based on individual identities, roles, and responsibilities. The most important IAM processes include access requests, approvals, and periodic access reviews. Now, what is User Access Management? User Access Management is a subset of IAM that specifically works on managing user access to numerous system data and resources. This enables users within an organization to access tools and services that they might need at times. This process is conducted through user accounts and permissions that are granted or revoked based on employee roles and responsibilities within an organization. Types of User Access Management in Saudi Arabia and UAE There are two types of UAM in an organization; Internal and External: Internal UAM Users found internally in an organization are its management, employees, and administration. Therefore, internal user access management controls access to organizational resources for those distinct entities. This management includes user permissions and accounts which involve processes like access control lists (ACLs), password management policies, role-based access (RBAC), etc. External UAM (Clients, Vendors, Customers) All stakeholders outside an organization also require user access management, from customers and clients to partners and vendors, everyone needs access on different platforms connected to the company. It typically entails the use of Single Sign-on (SSO) system to enable external users to access specific resources within the organization and customer journey integration platform with a single set of credentials that gives them limited access. The Importance of User Access Management User Access Management (UAM) is essential for safeguarding organizational data and ensuring seamless access to digital resources. It includes: Onboarding and Offboarding It ensures that new employees are granted appropriate access while departing employees' accounts are promptly deactivated. Access Control With User Access Management, you can grant or restrict access to sensitive systems and data based on user roles. Password Management With UAM, you can effortlessly assist with secure password resets, management, and updates. Regulatory Compliance It also enables you to maintain audit trails and adhere to industry regulations without any hassle At Arpatech, our IT help desk support system staff ensures that user setups and terminations are handled promptly and securely, maintaining the integrity of your network and data. This streamlined approach protects your business while enhancing operational efficiency. Key Features of Effective User Access Management in Saudi Arabia and UAE Streamlined Onboarding and Offboarding Efficient onboarding ensures new hires gain access to the tools they need immediately while offboarding protects sensitive data by revoking access promptly when an employee leaves. In 2025, automation tools will play a pivotal role in ensuring that these processes are both efficient and secure. 2. Enhanced Security Measures Modern UAM solutions integrate multi-factor authentication (MFA), biometric verification, and advanced encryption techniques to safeguard access to critical systems. Additionally, managing user access and handling password resets are critical components in maintaining security for all organizations including environmental management organizations. 3. Integration with IT Infrastructure As organizations adopt hybrid cloud models, user access management systems must seamlessly integrate with on-premise and cloud platforms to provide unified access controls. This integration extends to monitoring IT systems and infrastructure to ensure seamless operations. User Access Management Best Practices in UAE Here are the best practices in UAM that offer the most benefits of a User Access Management System to any organization: Automate Repetitive Routine Tasks: Enable automation for account provisioning, password resets, and revocations in order to reduce human error. Regularly Audit Accounts: Review account permissions periodically and remove unnecessary or dormant accounts. Carry Out Role-Based Access Control (RBAC): Grant permissions based on roles to ensure users only access what they need. Enforce Strong Password Policies: Implement mandatory password complexity and regular update requirements. Account Activity Monitoring: Use user access management tools to track login patterns, detect anomalies, and respond to potential security threats in real-time. A Look Ahead: Trends in User Access Management Software in Saudi Arabia AI-Powered Automation Artificial intelligence and machine learning promise to fine-tune aspects of user-behavior analytics by adding features around predictive security measures and anomaly detection. Zero Trust Frameworks The principle of "never trust, always verify" will continue to gain prominence. Every user and device goes through an authentication and authorization cycle continuously throughout their lives. Cloud-Based UAM Solutions With the increasing adoption of remote work, cloud-based solutions will dominate, providing scalability, flexibility, and remote accessibility. Unified Identity Management As businesses adopt multiple applications, unified identity management systems will ensure seamless single sign-on (SSO) capabilities across platforms. How We Offer User Access Management in Saudi Arabia and UAE At Arpatech, we prioritize the integrity and security of your IT environment. Our comprehensive User Access Management services include: Password Management: Assisting with resets and ensuring compliance with security protocols. Access Control: Granting and revoking access to various systems and applications securely. Onboarding and Offboarding: Streamlining the entire process for efficiency and security. We further manage user access for the handling of resets of passwords as well as access of various applications and systems. Our team enables a seamless onboarding process for new employees and handles terminations, ensuring setups and terminations are made duly and securely. As the Gulf manages to thrive as the business hub of all Middle East and we look forward to all the innovation in 2025 and beyond, user access management will continue to evolve, driven by advancements in technology and increasing cybersecurity challenges. By adopting modern practices and expert services, businesses can safeguard their data, streamline operations, and stay ahead of emerging threats. Frequently Asked Questions What is the role of User Access Management? One pivotal role of user access management is to ensure that only authorized personnel are allowed to access specific systems, data, and applications according to their roles and responsibilities. Therefore, you make sure that all users comply to cybersecurity frameworks like NCA ECC (KSA) and NESA IAS (UAE), preventing any external threats and enabling effective user access management in Saudi Arabia or UAE. What are the 4 pillars of UAM? In order to ensure legitimate users through MFA and biometrics, these are the most important 4 pillars of user access management: Identity Verification & Authentication Access Control & Authorization Access Review & Revocation Monitoring & Auditing What is the difference between User Account Management and User Access Management? In all organizations, User Account Management focuses on building and maintaining new user accounts, whereas User Access Management ensures that the right people have access to the right system tools and services, adhering to all security policies. The MENA region of the world, more commonly known as the Middle East and the North African sector is pushing boundaries in the tech landscape, and standing at the front of it all is Saudi Arabia. At present, cloud computing is revolutionizing the world by empowering companies to innovate, grow, and compete. This momentum has the potential to grow further, as Saudi Arabia has shown a commitment to economic diversification and digital transformation (DX) nationwide. The role of Cloud-managed services in Saudi Arabia is a key enabler for changing the face of business by offering reliable, scalable infrastructure solutions. According to research by the International Data Corporation (IDC), a worldwide market intelligence organization, Saudi Arabia's public cloud solutions market stood at USD 1.36 billion by the end of 2022, while the predicted projection is that it would hit USD 3.9 billion by 2027, indicating a strong compounded annual growth rate (CAGR) of 23.4 percent during 2022-2027. The 2030 Digital Vision of Cloud-Managed Services Cloud computing and digital connection are the pillars on which Saudi’s Vision 2030 stands. With the adoption of cloud computing in all technological sectors, the kingdom is set to promote agility, scalability, and transformation in the tech landscape. Cloud-based services and applications in KSA are driving businesses toward digital success. Successfully navigating the cloud journey demands a well-thought-out strategy. In this blog, we delve into a proven five-step approach to cloud adoption and highlight how Arpatech can support your Saudi business in achieving a seamless transition. Factors Driving This Digital Vision Offering Benefits of Cloud Managed Services in Saudi Arabia The companies in Saudi Arabia are competing with the rest of the world. They have the support of the regime. When all resources are available to you, you reap the benefits of enjoying the cloud-based services advantages in KSA. Here are some more factors that are driving this vision forward: Supportive Government Policies for Cloud-Managed Services Azure Saudi Arabia Governments are responsible for shaping the technology environment. Saudi Arabian initiatives like Cloud Strategy, Cloud First Policy, Cloud Cryptography, and Cloud Cybersecurity promote technology acceptance by providing a defined direction and secure framework for technology adoption. These policies help establish trust in cloud solutions and service providers, enabling safe website migration to cloud. Economic Diversification in Cloud Solutions. To be sustainable, an economy can no longer depend solely on one sector such as oil or traditional manufacturing in today's fast-changing environment. With the development of cloud technologies, business organizations can create new products and services, tap into the global marketplace, and sustain their competitive edge. In Saudi Arabia, this directly assists with the aspirations of Vision 2030, a program to lessen the dependence on oil through the growth of other sectors, including technology, healthcare, and education. Private cloud-managed services in Saudi Arabia will further enhance IT infrastructure to allow faster time-to-market for those who wish to innovate. Efficiency and Cost Savings with Cloud Technology The cloud provides a cost-effective way for businesses to grow. Instead of spending large amounts of money upfront on physical servers and IT infrastructure, the kingdom is enabling Google Cloud Saudi Arabia services on a pay-as-you-go basis. This means businesses only pay for what they need when they need it. AWS cloud-managed services in Saudi Arabia and Oracle cloud-managed services in Saudi Arabia are also providing enterprises with flexible, cloud-cost optimization options to scale their operations seamlessly. Five Pillars that Propel the Cloud-Managed Services in Saudi Arabia Cloud: From Basics to Breakthrough By moving beyond the basics and utilize the cloud as a strategic enabler of innovation and growth, businesses can transform their cloud journey from a simple migration effort into a powerful launchpad for comprehensive business transformation. With managed cloud services, enterprises can align their cloud strategy with their long-term vision. Cloud’s Custom-Made Toolkit One-size-fits-all thinking has become passé. Cloud services offer a varied range of services and functions that can be tailored to a specialized problem or objective. In the case of the cloud-based service AWS KSA, provides tailored cloud solutions to meet the requirements of any business. People & Process: The Cloud-Powered Workforce A cloud-savvy workforce becomes necessary to maximize cloud service benefits. Training or restructuring workflows to accommodate managed cloud services, for instance, managed cloud services Azure Saudi Arabia can increase efficiency and productivity in all organizational operations. Data & AI: Cloud’s Innovation Engine The cloud is more than just an alternative for data storage systems; it’s an innovation hub. Businesses tend to use cloud-based data analytics in conjunction with artificial intelligence (AI) in order to get relevant insights that will help promote growth and lend them a competitive edge in this digital world. Cloudonomics: From Cost Control to Value Creation Rethinking the cost conversation around the cloud is essential. Organizations must shift their focus from merely controlling expenses to maximizing the value of their investment. Cloud-based services advantages in KSA include cost optimization, enhanced security, and seamless scalability. Let's Start Your Cloud Journey today! Let the cloud be the engine that powers your business and positions you for success in the digital age. Work with expert service providers at Arpatech and experience your company's growth in the future years. Frequently Asked Questions: What cloud providers are available in Saudi Arabia? Saudi Arabia hosts a wide range of cloud service providers, including international organizations like Arpatech, Oracle, and Google Cloud, as well as local companies like STC, and Mobily. Get cost-effective services by reaching out today! Is Azure Cloud available in Saudi Arabia? As of today, Microsoft has built three Azure availability zones in Saudi Arabia’s Eastern Province, with services expected to be available in the year 2026. In the meantime, organizations can either use Azure services from nearby regions or explore alternative cloud solutions, but it is important that organizations migrate to cloud architecture, as it’s how the tech-scape works, or you’ll be left in the dust by your competition. What is the cost of managed cloud services in Saudi Arabia? The cost of managed cloud services in Saudi Arabia depends on different factors. Are you migrating to the cloud for the first time? What cloud architecture are you going for? What should you choose: Public Cloud vs Private Cloud vs Hybrid Cloud? Answering these questions will allow you to know what you are looking for and get the pricing from the right cloud providers accordingly. Disruptions at times can affect entire operations and cause damage to the trust of customers. What is Incident Management? We need a systematic approach that effectively detects, responds, and fixes these disruptions as they appear. Today, we will discuss all the ins and outs of incident management, its essential steps, different forms, and the best tools and practices for optimizing your incident management strategies. What is Incident Management? Incident management is a process that businesses use to handle disruptions during normal operations. This is a primary part of an incident management system and IT service management (ITSM), and it indicates that services should be restored as soon as possible. An effective incident management software effectively automates and streamlines processes to support the IT teams in tracking, responding and resolving issues. What is the Purpose of Incident Management? The purpose of incident management is to provide structured responses to incidents to ensure that downtime is reduced, and all systems are reliability enhanced. With improved incident management, your organization’s service quality is improved, compliance requirements are met, and customer satisfaction is enhanced infinitely. The NIMS, or National Incident Management System, is a systematic approach that helps organizations address emergencies, manage IT Resource Allocation services, and major incidents. This method works on the basis of establishing a common framework of incident response, coordination, and recovery, starting from the national level down to the local. Types of Incident Management Incident management comes in different forms depending on the nature of the issue, the people involved, and the approach taken to resolve it. Here’s a closer look at the main types: Reactive Incident Management This is all about addressing problems after they happen. The goal? Get things back to normal as quickly as possible. The process involves identifying the issue, examining the root cause of the problem, and then implementing a solution. Proactive Incident Management Instead of waiting for something to break, proactive incident management focuses on preventing incidents before they happen. organizations achieve that through monitoring systems that help in identifying potential vulnerabilities and putting up strategies that minimize the risks. Major Incident Management Some incidents are more critical than others; like system outages or security breaches. These high-priority events require a committed response team, a well-defined escalation procedure, and clear communication to ensure that there would be no delays in resolving the issues. Service Request Management Not all issues are emergencies; there exist quite a few requests like resetting a password, giving access approvals, and many more requiring a service request management system. These are not technically termed as incidents, but they make or break efficient IT operations. Problem Management Some issues keep coming back. Problem management is meant to identify and address the root cause of repeating incidents, to ensure they don't occur again. It is more of a long-term fix, instead of a quick patch. What is the Incident Management Process? A structured approach ensures that incidents are handled quickly and effectively. Here’s how it works: Identification This is the first step, identifying and logging the problem. Once the system allows for continuous monitoring, it can catch anomalies early on, which, in turn, minimizes impact and maximizes resolution time. Categorization and Prioritization As soon as an incident occurs, it should be categorized for severity. This ensures that those problems are addressed most urgently and get worked on first. Investigation and Diagnosis This is the detective stage, getting to the root cause with a solution being the next best choice. Understanding things further will prevent the same problem from occurring again. Resolution and Recovery Once a fix is identified, it’s implemented. Teams test solutions, confirm everything is back to normal, and ensure that all user access management has enabled users to resume their work without disruption. Closure and Analysis Finally, every incident is documented, lessons are learned, and strategies are updated to prevent similar issues in the future. This continuous improvement keeps systems running smoothly. Incident Management Roles and Responsibilities Different people play crucial roles in resolving incidents. Here’s who does what: Incident Manager: The one who manages the entire procedure and makes sure everything runs seamlessly. Service Desk Team: The people who log all incidents, categorize them, and route them to the right teams and units. IT Help Desk Support Services: The team responsible for the diagnosis and fixes of all technical issues. Users and Employees: The ones who report incidents and provide necessary details for resolution. Top 3 Incident Management Tools The right tools can make all the difference. Here are three of the best: ServiceNow A powerful platform that automates workflows, uses AI for incident categorization, provides real-time dashboards, and integrates seamlessly with other IT Help Desk Supporting Ticketing Systems. Zendesk A user-friendly tool known for its efficient ticketing system, automated routing, detailed reporting, and omnichannel support for seamless customer interactions. Jira Service Management Ideal for DevOps and IT teams, this tool offers customizable workflows, seamless integration with Jira Software, real-time collaboration features, and SLA management for timely resolution. 5 Best Practices for Incident Management Early Identification Catching incidents early is key to minimizing disruption. Robust monitoring tools help detect issues before they escalate. Adopt a Proactive Approach Instead of waiting for something to go wrong, regularly assess systems, identify vulnerabilities, and fix them in advance. Prioritize Incidents Not all issues are equally urgent. A prioritization framework ensures critical incidents get immediate attention while lower-priority ones are handled appropriately. Establish a Strong Response Team A well-trained, empowered team makes a huge difference in resolution speed. Regular training and simulation exercises keep them prepared for any situation. Automate Tasks Automation speeds up incident resolution and reduces human error. AI and machine learning can help detect issues, send alerts, and even suggest solutions automatically. Incident Management Examples Some common examples of incident management scenarios include: A network failure affecting business communications. Critical server outage that requires immediate escalation. Software bug disrupting user access to an application. A cybersecurity breach that demands rapid containment and mitigation. In the End Incident management isn’t just about resolving problems; it’s about creating a robust system that can adapt in the face of challenges and succeed against them. By implementing the best tips, tools, and best practices, you can improve your organization’s incident response capabilities, decrease downtime, and enhance overall service reliability. Take advice from industry leaders at Arpatech and invest in these processes and tools to ensure smoother operations, reduced downtime, and improved service quality. Get in touch today! Frequently Asked Questions 1. What is the difference between incident management and problem management? Incident management is used for emergencies that disrupt operations all of a sudden. It aims for swift resolutions in order to restore operations or services. On the other hand problem management focuses on enhancing the overall systems, which allows the prevention of future incidents. 2. What is the goal of incident management The primary goal of incident management is to restore normal operations as soon as possible in a business so it does not sustain any negative impact. 3. What are the 5 stages of the incident management process? As mentioned above, the 5 primary stages of incident management process are as follows: Early Identification Prioritization and categorization Diagnosis Recovery and resolution Closure 4. What are the three types of incidents? The 3 types of incidents that you can come across are: Major Incident: The large-scale ones that don't often happen, if you have good systems installed, but can happen once in a blue moon. For example; A major malware leads to login issues for hundreds of users. A good incident management system in place can handle this effectively in time. Repetitive Incidents: Some incidents keep happening no matter how many times you resolve them. These are usually hardware-related or not a systematic issue, for example; a printer malfunctioning or wifi not working. This is part of problem management, but if it’s not available, then your business requires quite a bit of robust incident management systems. Complex Incidents: Most incidents are easy, however sometimes complex incidents put a roadblock in your operations and workflow halts. A robust incident management system in place integrates workflow optimization, notifications, and incident tracking, providing the essential tools to manage complex incidents smoothly and efficiently. Constant innovation is a part we play today to stay on top of competition in every industry. Entering the year 2025, the incorporation of technology into business processes will gain a foothold in today's commercial environment. Business process automation tools and Business Process Integration (BPI) will mark the new dawn, helping companies to streamline operations, promote growth, and increase efficiency. Today, we will be discussing the ins and outs of how businesses can benefit by implementing business process integration, simplifying workflows using tech, and enhancing digital transformation so that they can thrive for years to come. What is Business Process Integration? Our main goal is to maximize our BPI as much as possible. But before that, we need to understand what BPI is. So, Business Process Integration (BPI) is the smooth connection of several systems, applications, and workflows within an organization to enable continuous data flow and company-wide operations. By integrating processes, your business will be able to automate repetitive tasks, improve decision-making, and enhance customer experiences. It reduces silos, interruptions, and makes sure that all departments work in collaboration, enabling success in all areas. In the year 2025, it is predicted that Business Process Integration will become more critical than ever. From your businesses and other small and medium-sized businesses to larger enterprises will face increasing complexity and demand for agility. Whether it’s integrating CRM systems with marketing channels or linking supply chain management tools with inventory systems, BPI makes sure that all elements of a business work together effortlessly. Types of Business Process Integration There are various types of business process integration, each having its specific purpose. Understanding these types of BPI can help businesses choose the one appropriate for their requirements. Application Integration This consists of connecting different software applications to share data and functionality. For example, integrating an ERP system with a CRM system makes sure that customer data flows between sales and finance teams while avoiding data silos, hence optimizing cooperation. This is a key part of business process software integration. Cloud Integration Cloud integration saves time by linking cloud apps with in-house systems; this way, it automates data entry while IT works in the background. The hybrid integration model combines cloud with in-house solutions, which ultimately enables businesses to gain traction. For example, a logistics company may use cloud-based route optimization software but already have a fully managed inventory-focused structure. Additionally, the role of containerization has become a necessary aspect of cloud integration, allowing businesses to manage applications more efficiently. By packaging the application and all of its dependencies together, containerization provides consistency across different environments and reduces friction for any scaling or integration of new technologies. Process Integration in BPI Process business systems integration ensures that the operations within departments are aligned to be streamlined and consistent. For example, a healthcare provider can link patient data, billing, and treatment plans to reduce waiting time and improve patient service. Data Integration With the help of Data integration, information and data from several different sources are gathered together to provide one combined view. For example, we can incorporate AI into retail and e-commerce businesses by combining customer data from their e-commerce website, POS systems, and loyalty program into a 360-degree view of customer behavior. This helps promote your business to customers more effectively and improves decision-making. This is an essential aspect of the business integration process. Key Components of Digital Transformation with Business Process Integration Digital transformation for businesses is no longer optional. If your organization wants to move forward in their field, it is strategically important for them to stay competitive in 2025. Digital transformation in BPI involves adopting digital technologies to change how businesses operate and deliver value to customers. Cloud Computing Employees today want to work from anywhere in the world, and cloud computing allows that by enabling remote work and scalable operations. Businesses can access information and applications from anywhere by migrating to the cloud, which ensures that businesses remain on track. For example, cloud-based project management tools can be used by consulting firms to collaborate with remote teams and customers in real time. AI and ML in BPI Artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning (ML) promote automation and predictive analytics in all departments of a business. For example, an e-commerce business can use AI-driven recommendations to suggest products based on customer behavior and customer journey integration platform, which ultimately increases sales and customer satisfaction. Blockchain Banking and money transfers have become increasingly unsafe in recent years. Security and transparency in transactions have improved increasingly due to the use of Blockchain. A supply chain company, for example, will use blockchain to track the transportation of goods from manufacturer to consumer, which decreases fraud and ensures authenticity. Cybersecurity Protecting sensitive data from threats is necessary in this digital era and infinitely difficult to do. Today, in order to get strong cybersecurity measures, large investments are required to be made by businesses, such as encryption and multi-factor authentication. This is to ensure that all their customer data and systems are protected. By supporting digital transformation, businesses can future-proof their operations and unlock new growth opportunities. For example, a traditional retailer can transform into a uniform business by integrating online and in-shop sales channels, which in turn offers customers a smooth shopping experience. How to Automate Business Processes with Technology You want business efficiency? Automation is the key to that. Here’s a step-by-step guide on how you can automate business processes with technology: Identify All Monotonous Tasks: One thing we all want to get rid of and automate are those tedious, monotonous business tasks, so, begin the process by identifying tasks that are time-consuming and repetitive. For example, data entry, invoice processing, and report preparation are some common operations that you can automate. . Outline All Your Workflows: If you want to see a clear pathway to success, you need to clear the fog. Clearly define the steps involved in each process. You can visualize the workflow and identify all areas that need improvement by using charts, process mapping tools, and graphs. You Need the Right Tools: Selecting the correct business process integration software that aligns with your requirements is imperative. Consider factors like integration abilities, scalability, and easy user experience. For example, a small business might choose Zapier for its simplicity, while a larger enterprise will go for Workato for its advanced features. Incorporate Systems: Seamless data flows can be achieved by connecting your applications and systems. For example, by integrating your CRM with your email marketing, you to automate customer follow-ups. Test and Monitor: Continuous improvements and betterment are signs of successful organizations. Constantly monitor and update your automated workflows for maximum efficiency. Use analytics to track performance and make adjustments as required. Top Tech Solutions for Streamlining Operations In 2025, businesses will have access to a wide range of top tech solutions for streamlining operations. Some of the most impactful solutions include the following: Low-Code/No-Code Platforms These platforms allow businesses to create custom applications without extensive coding. For example, in order to steamline their operations, a small business can use a no-code platform like Bubble to create a customer portal for managing orders and support requests. AI-Powered Analytics Analytics with AI technology provides actionable insights for better decision-making. For example, a logistics company uses predictive analytics to optimize delivery routes and reduce fuel costs. RPA (Robotic Process Automation) With the help of RPA, you can automate repetitive tasks across systems. For instance, your HR department can use RPA to automate employee onboarding, reducing paperwork and improving efficiency. Collaboration Tools Tools like Slack and Microsoft Teams enhance communication and teamwork across remote and hybrid workforces. These platforms integrate with other business applications, creating a unified workspace. How to Integrate Technology into Business Processes Integrating technology into business processes requires a strategic approach. Here’s how to do it effectively: Identify All Your Requirements: Look for areas where technology can add the most value to your business. For example, a retail business might prioritize inventory management and customer relationship management, therefore, a CRM system works best for them. Train Your Team Trained employees are the backbone of every company. Ensure employees are equipped to use new technologies effectively. Provide training sessions and resources to help them adapt so that they can learn Business Process integration effortlessly. Choose the Right Solutions: Select tools that align with your business’ goals and objectives. You need to consider important factors like cost, scalability, and ease of integration. This way, instead of setbacks, your organization will only welcome more success. Monitor and Evaluate If you have the right team, they will make sure to continuously assess the impact of technology in your BPI and make changes as needed. Utilize the power of feedback and analytics to improve your processes and maximize ROI. In the End As we look ahead to 2025, the BPI integration into organizations will be a defining factor for success. By embracing digital transformation, business process integration, and automation tools, businesses will be able to optimize workflows and stay competitive in this rapidly evolving tech landscape. Whether you’re a small or medium-sized business or a large enterprise, partner with the right experts at Arpatech to succeed in the industry. Now is the time to invest in the tools and strategies that will drive your growth in the years to come. Frequently Asked Questions: What is an example of business process integration? One example of business process integration is connecting a Customer Relationship Management (CRM) system with an email marketing platform. This integration allows businesses to automatically sync customer data, track all consumer interactions, and send personalized emails, improving customer engagement and streamlining marketing efforts. Why is it better to start enterprise integration with business process integration? It is better to start enterprise integration with business process integration because it focuses on aligning departmental workflows and improving operational proficiency. By enabling process business systems integration first, businesses are able to identify bottlenecks, reduce repetitions, and make sure that all systems work together smoothly. This basic step allows businesses to scale and integrate more complex systems later. When you're starting out as a business owner, choosing the right programming solution for your brand can be difficult. However, enterprise web software development for small and medium businesses makes it infinitely easier. Today, we will provide you with a guide on what is enterprise software development, its types, and how you can use it to benefit your organization. What is Enterprise Software Development? Enterprise apps are the fundamental part of any technology infrastructure of a enterprise software development agency for accomplishing essential operations and processes. Enterprise software development plays a vital role in automating processes, creating a bridge across different departments with operational workflows. From accounting and marketing to inventory management and sales, with small and medium enterprise software development, you can lay the foundations of a scalable system. Types of Enterprise Software Systems There are different types of enterprise software systems and each is built to perform specific functions and is targeted to solve precise problems. On a broader spectrum, they are all designed to help increase efficiency, automate tasks, and optimize the business. Here are the most common types of Enterprise software systems you'll encounter: Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) An ERP is a framework designed to systematically gather information and digitize it into different modules. ERP Software for Enterprises enables networking between different departments, which allows teams to operate in a centralized system and collaborate in real-time. The modules are either a part of the framework or are obtained individually and are designed around different modules, including the customer relationship, supply chain, or HR/ Labour management, depending on the industry. Customer Relationships Management (CRM) With CRM software, you can manage customer relationships effectively. This enterprise software is specifically designed to handle customer data and information that would cross-sell, upsell sales, and boost organizations at all levels. Customer relationship management is the custom enterprise level software development system that focuses on marketing, which includes lead generation, sales pipeline growth, customer support, and implementation. It records all buyer information and contact details, which include their name, shopping history, customer service interactions, grievances, and refunds. Many industries, such as retail, e-commerce, and hospitality, use customized CRM enterprise software to manage their business operations, which include sales lead management, overseeing project processes, and handling social media activities. Business Intelligence BI Do you think your business is getting boring and monotonous? Add intelligence to the mix with the help of enterprise software services, and take advantage of an application that gathers information and converts it into actionable business decisions for you. BI custom enterprise software development provides you with a competitive edge by offering analytical insights and logical reasoning based on data. With business intelligence tools, you can generate dashboards that display graphical representations of data using graphs, charts, and different pictorial means. These reports allow business leaders to make the right decisions and take the necessary steps accordingly. Human Resource Management HRM Enterprise-level software development within HR enables organizations to streamline their employee management, performance tracking, and benefit administration, which makes the processes of human resource more efficient and systematic. By automating HR processes, businesses can reduce administrative burdens, improve workforce planning, and enhance employee engagement. HRM software also ensures compliance with labor regulations and simplifies recruitment procedures. Supply Chain Management System SCM If you want to optimize the logistic aspects of your organization, you need Supply chain Management SCM enterprise software development. This application streamlines your inventory, procurement, logistics and improves the entire supply chain operations. With SCM systems, businesses can enhance visibility across the supply chain, reduce operational costs, and minimize delays. These tools also provide real-time tracking of inventory and shipments, ensuring efficient supply chain coordination. Payroll Management Payroll management is one of the most important aspects in company operations. but without tools, managing the payroll of hundreds or even thousands of employees can be a tedious process. Here, enterprise-level payroll management frees up the HR system to focus on hiring the best talent and automates a torrent of HR tasks. Main Features of Enterprise Software The goal of enterprise solution software is to integrate, automate, and manage an organization’s processes and operations. This eliminates obstructions between a company’s departments and ensures smooth information flow throughout the corporation. To achieve these objectives, enterprise software development follows these main features: Integration With an enterprise software development system you can integrate various business processes and existing systems into the organization’s IT infrastructure, ensuring seamless data flow between departments. This allows for better collaboration and improved interoperability. Automation Adding automation to your system eradicates repetitive manual tasks, decreases errors and saves time. Enterprise software development helps you automate all such processes, like data entry, customer interactions, and reporting. This allows employees to focus on more strategic tasks and core business responsibilities. Customization Enteprise software systems also provide you with the option for customization. This enables businesses to tailor software systems according to their requirements and they are able to align their systems with industry standards, their unique business goals and company operations. Analytics and Evaluation Enterprise software development platform offers a strong reporting and analytics feature that organizations find quite easy to use. It helps them measure key metrics, track performance, and make data-driven decisions. The insights that you get contribute to the continuous improvement and efficiency of the business. Scalability The demand for scalability today is the selling point of every business. With enterprise software development, businesses are allowed to expand their operations and accommodate complex orders effectively. This way, enterprise software development companies get the ability to adapt to growing business requirements, users, and data sets. Collaboration and Communicaion Enterprise software solutions incorporate numerous tools and solutions for collaboration. These tools enable employees to work together efficiently regardless of where they are working from. Attributes like document collaboration, shared dashboards, and instant messaging improve productivity and communication within your team. Benefits of Enterprise Software Development Enterprise software development offers numerous advantages that help businesses operate more efficiently, collaborate effectively, and make informed decisions. Here’s a detailed breakdown of its key benefits: 1. Improved Operational Efficiency One of the enterprise software development benefits is that it gives you the advantage of automating most manual and repetitive tasks, streamlining operations, and integrating various systems with business functions. This ultimately takes off the load from your employees, reduces manual efforts, minimizes labor errors, and speeds up operations. This allows your team to focus on higher-value tasks in the company. 2. Enhanced Teamwork Across Departments Enterprise software systems can facilitate communication within a team. These systems enable effortless data sharing and collaboration across distinct departments: centralized data storage, real-time updates, and integrated communication tools foster a more cohesive work environment. 3. Promotes Decision-Making Based on Data Another advantage that enterprise software provides is the existence of sophisticated analytics and reporting tools that give real-time insights into business processes. That makes it possible for business executives to base their decisions on data, discover patterns, and fine-tune the growth and efficiency strategies. 4. Scalability Accommodating Business Growth With changing business situations and the extension of business activities, business software needs to change. Enterprise software is therefore aimed at scalable-ability growth matching business requirements for more users, more data, and more functions, with no compromise in performance. This gives software that has long-term usability and flexibility to allow its use in every way possible to assist your business in growing. 5. Increased Security and Compliance Another benefit that enterprise software includes is strong security measures such as encryption, role-based access control, and compliance features that enable companies to meet industry standards. These security measures help protect all sensitive business data from cyber threats and unauthorized outside access. Best Practices of Enterprise Software Development There are best practices for conducting all kinds of processes, but when it comes to enterprise software development challenges, here are a set of best practices that you can use to overcome them and bring your enterprise system to life: Leveraging Microservices to Achieve Architecture Modularity Microservices architecture allows enterprise software to be more flexible, scalable, and maintainable. By breaking down applications into smaller, independent services, your organization can deploy and update features faster, improving time-to-market. Microservices facilitate efficient fault isolation, enhance system resilience, and allow the use of different technologies for various components. This approach also helps organizations scale specific services based on demand, optimizing resource utilization and performance. Applying Cloud Data Storage When you implement cloud data storage to enterprise software development process, it plays a critical role by providing a secure and scalable data management environment to your organization’s infrastructure. This functionality enables your teams to access real-time data from any location and ensures timely disaster recovery. In addition, with the use of cloud storage, you can decrease data loss risks, reduce infrastructure costs, and support compliance according to the set industry standards. Enterprise software development firms benefit exponentially from the benefit of cloud data storage that allows rapid data processing, improved collaborations, and automated backups. Cloud-Native Approach A cloud-native approach involves designing and developing applications specifically for cloud environments. This approach utilizes containerization, serverless computing, and CI/CD to ensure that your business sees high availability, scalability, and reliability in the future. One more advantage that you get from cloud-native enterprise software is that it adapts easily to changing business requirements, which helps in reducing downtime and improving efficiency. It also enhances enterprise software development costs effectiveness by giving you the option of pay-as-you-go models, ensuring organizations only pay for the resources they use. Security by Design One primary component is security in enterprise software development. If implementing security by design, it provides that applications are built from the ground up with sound security measures. There is nothing added on at the end. Security is in consideration at every step of the software development process. This will include encryption, multi-factor authentication, role-based access control, and regular security audits. Having these measures in place ensures compliance with industry standards such as ISO 27001 and GDPR, which adds an extra layer of data protection. By means of these proactive measures, you will be able to attack these vulnerabilities, thereby minimizing the organization to cybersecurity threats, securing customer loyalty, and trust at every level. Centralized System with Inbuilt Connectors and Flexible Integration Options A further option available to you involves a centralized enterprise system being added to your infrastructure, thus integrating many business applications and processes into a single platform. This way, departmental issues with seamless communication are rendered very obsolete. In-built connectors allow for simple integration with third-party software, ensuring compatibility with existing tools and systems. This ensures great flexibility and enhances automation, visibility, and operations. For many, data consistency improves, decision-making gets better, and a siloed business ecosystem becomes a thing of the past. The Right Talent is Imperative No matter how successful you think your organization is, enterprise software development cannot prosper without skilled professionals with expertise in modern technologies, agile software development, and industry best practices. A strong development team should include software engineers, cloud architects, security experts, and data analysts. Organizations should invest in continuous training and upskilling to keep their teams updated with the latest advancements. Having the right talent ensures the delivery of high-quality, scalable, and secure enterprise solutions that align with business goals. Enterprise Software Development Lifecycle Whether you are looking for mobile app or web app development services, the development lifecycle looks a little like this: 1. Discovery and Planning First of all, we identify business requirements and define the scope of enterprise software development, when we're answering the question of how to build enterprise software. This phase includes gathering business requirements and stakeholder input, analyzing all the challenges the business might face, and establishing project objectives. 2. Designing Secondly, we create wireframes, user interfaces, and system infrastructure. Designers focus on building intuitive and user-friendly interfaces that enhance usability and accessibility. 3. Development After that, enterprise software developers build and integrate core functionalities. This phase of the lifecycle involves writing codes, configuring databases, and implementing business logic to meet project requirements. 4. Quality Assurance and Testing This is the second last stage of the cycle; here, we ensure software reliability, security, and performance. Testing includes functional, performance, and security testing to identify and resolve bugs before deployment. 5. Support and Maintenance Lastly, we provide updates, bug fixes, and continuous improvements. Ongoing maintenance ensures that software remains up to date with evolving business needs, technological advancements, and your scaling business. Some Challenges of Custom Enterprise Software Development Usually, when it comes to implementing a custom enterprise software development system, it just means moving an already functioning but traditional business process to a new, custom-made software system. However, even this can cause complexities and challenges to arise. Some challenges are: 1. Lack of Flexibility and Scalability Architecture In every organization, enterprise software is designed to handle large-scale business operations, but if the infrastructure lacks adaptability and scalability, it can lead to major blocks. If you don’t have a strong system, it may not adapt to changing business requirements, market trends, or increasing users, making future expansion quite difficult. Poorly designed software can struggle to accommodate new features, integrate with evolving technologies, or scale effectively when your business grows. This can lead to major performance issues, costly redesigns, and system failures. 2. Increasing Security Risks and Threats In organizations, enterprise software often deals with sensitive business data, financial records, and customer information, making it the target for cyber threats. You can face many security vulnerabilities like weak authentication protocols, unencrypted data storage, or misconfigured access controls, which can expose the system to data breaches or ransomware. As cybercriminals become more experienced, you need to ensure that your organization keeps updating security measures, complying with industry standards, and implementing strong security strategies that include multi-factor authentication, data encryption, and regular security audits. If you fail to address these risks, they can lead to financial loss, reputational damage, and, above all, legal consequences. 3. Data Integration and Migration Many enterprises rely on third-party applications or different data sources, which is a huge risk, it turns data integration and migration into quite a complex process. It is understood that migrating large volumes of structured and unstructured data to a new system requires careful planning to ensure data consistency and security. The challenges that many organizations may face include data format mismatches, duplication or outdated records, and potential data loss during migration. Moreover, making sure that real-time data synchronization across multiple platforms can be difficult. This requires advanced data mapping and ETL (Extract, Transform, Load) processes. Without proper data governance, the huge risks that your business faces is operational inefficiencies and incorrect decision-making which would be based on unreliable data. 4. Integration with Other Systems One of the most important elements of an enterprise software system is that it must seamlessly integrate with various existing tools, such as CRM, ERP, accounting software, and third-party APIs to ensure smooth operations. However, if developers use different technology stacks, incompatible data formats, or outdated APIs, they can create integration challenges. Poor integration can lead toobstructions and challenges like data silos, where different departments work with isolated data. This causes inefficiencies and communication gaps within your team and departments. Moreover, maintaining integration compatibility with evolving technologies and cloud-based services requires continuous updates and investment. If you fail to ensure proper integration, it can lead to operational disruptions, errors in data exchange, and it reduces overall system effectiveness. Get the Right Enterprise Software Development The best way to take advantage of enterprise software development services is for businesses to focus on their core operations while expert enterprise software developers handle your enterprise software development. So, automate your tasks, reduce silos, and improve the collaboration within your team by integrating or outsource enterprise system development into your organizational infrastructure. Now is the time to choose the right enterprise software development company to handle your IT infrastructure. Partner with Arpatech, and let's design your next project! Frequently Asked Questions What is an example of enterprise software? You can read about the types of Enterprise software above, or the most common examples of Enterprise software used by organizations to manage operations include: ERP CRM BI HRM SCM systems What is the difference between enterprise software development and regular software development? Enterprise software development focuses on large-scale, business-oriented applications that integrate multiple departments, whereas regular software development includes smaller-scale applications for general use. Which language is best for enterprise applications and enterprise software development? Languages such as Java, Python, C#, and JavaScript are commonly used for enterprise software development due to their scalability and reliability. The best are Java and Python software development services. What are the reasons for implementing enterprise software systems? Enterprise software systems enhance productivity, streamline business processes, improve collaboration, and enable data-driven decision-making. The software industry is playing a crucial role today in shaping the future of this generation. However, with the growing reliance on digital infrastructure comes a significant environmental impact. The need for sustainable software development has never been greater. If you want to implement these green strategies into your company, we will explore what sustainable software development is, the challenges it faces, best practices, and the benefits of adopting green coding techniques. What is Sustainable Software Development? Sustainable software development is like a green energy generator for the tech world. By that, it means engineering, developing, and keeping software in such a way that its environmental perturbation is minimized, mostly reducing energy consumption, optimizing resources, and ensuring long-term usability. By obstinately pursuing sustainable development software principles, businesses are not only doing for the planet but also for themselves, helping with overall efficiency and decreasing costs. Sounds like a win-win, right? Software Challenges Facing Sustainable Development Despite its importance, sustainable software development isn’t without its hurdles. Let’s take a look at some of the biggest challenges: High Energy Consumption Data centers and cloud computing require a lot of energy resources. Many software applications are not optimized at all for energy efficiency, and therefore lead to excessive power consumption. This, in turn, raises carbon footprint and operational costs for all businesses and users. Lack of Awareness Many developers and companies simply do not know how their software affects the environment and are generally unaware of the techniques for green coding. Without proper education and training, software teams tend to build inefficient applications that do not contribute to sustainability and miss many good opportunities for reducing environmental impact. Cost of Sustainable Software Development Going green can seem expensive at first. Initial investments in sustainable technologies can be high. Companies may hesitate to adopt green software practices due to the upfront costs of energy-efficient infrastructure, sustainable cloud services, and optimized software development frameworks. Short Software Lifecycles We live in a world where software gets outdated fast. But frequent software updates and releases also lead to digital waste. Many applications are designed with short lifespans, requiring constant updates or replacements, which increases electronic waste and resource consumption. Scalability Issues Sustainable software practices must be scalable without loss of performance. Many green coding techniques are related to energy use reduction and provide great results on a small scale, but also scaling these techniques along with efficiency across wider systems is challenging. Key Strategies for Sustainable Software Development To overcome these challenges, here are some practices that developers can adopt, the following sustainable software development practices: Energy-Efficient Coding Writing optimized code that requires less processing power means less energy consumption. By reducing extra computations and optimizing algorithms, developers can significantly decrease energy consumption in software execution, making applications more efficient. Green Cloud Computing Many cloud providers now offer green hosting solutions so companies can lessen their adverse effects on the environment by choosing data centers running on solar, wind, or hydroelectric power. Efficient Algorithms Choosing the right data structures and optimizing the methods of processing should be able to provide software tools with actions that require few CPU and memory demands, reducing energy consumption. Longer Software Life Cycle Software that is designed to last longer means fewer updates and replacements, so reducing digital waste and consumption of resources. This ensures that software behaves correctly: applications are designed with modular architectures and sustainable coding principles, so they stay relevant and functioning longer. Minimalistic UI/UX Development of lightweight applications which are quickly loaded and hence consume less data will contribute to lowering the server load, thereby improving user experience. The interfaces should be as simple as possible so that it does not need excessive decorative graphical elements and animations and unnecessary background processes, which will improve all efficiency.. Benefits of Sustainable Software Development Embracing sustainable software development has multiple benefits: Environmental Impact – Reduces carbon footprints and energy consumption. By making software more efficient, companies can decrease their reliance on power-hungry data centers and contribute to reducing global greenhouse gas emissions. Cost Savings Optimized software reduces operational and maintenance costs. Energy-efficient applications require fewer resources to run, lowering electricity bills and hardware maintenance costs for businesses. Better Performance Effective coding enhances application responsiveness and speed. Software experiences are accelerated for users with less lag times and less consumption of resources, resulting in an improved and enhanced interaction. It facilitates a greener future to be sustainable. Regulatory Compliance Several governments are enacting legislation to promote green tech. Firms adopting green software principles can remain in front of changing rules, evading potential penalties and receiving access to incentives for environmentally friendly programs. Enhanced Brand Image Environmental Management Organizations adopting green practices create environmentally conscious customers. Sustainability will increasingly become the deciding factor when consumers make purchase decisions, and companies that practice environmental responsibility have the ability to enhance customer confidence and loyalty. How to Develop Sustainable Software To create sustainable agile development software, companies can follow these steps: Adopt Green Hosting Use data centers powered by renewable energy. Hosting websites and applications on servers that run on solar or wind power helps significantly reduce the carbon footprint of digital services. Write Optimized Code Reduce unnecessary computations and database queries. By refining algorithms and streamlining processes, software applications can complete tasks using fewer system resources and lower energy consumption. Use Sustainable Frameworks Opt for software frameworks that support sustainability. Some web app development tools are designed to encourage energy-efficient coding, offering built-in optimizations for better performance with lower power usage. Reduce Redundant Features Avoid excessive functionalities that increase processing needs. Simplifying applications by eliminating rarely used features helps reduce memory and CPU usage, leading to more sustainable software. Monitor Energy Consumption Use tools to track and optimize energy usage. Energy profiling tools can help developers identify areas where software is consuming excessive power, allowing for continuous improvements in efficiency. Examples of Sustainable Software Development Several software development companies have successfully implemented sustainable software development projects. Here are a few sustainable software development examples: Google Cloud Runs on carbon-free energy and optimizes data center efficiency. Google continuously works to reduce the energy footprint of its cloud services by using AI-driven energy management solutions. Microsoft Azure Uses AI to reduce energy waste in data processing. Microsoft has pledged to become carbon-negative by 2030 and is optimizing its cloud services to consume less energy while maintaining high performance. Ecosia A search engine that plants trees with ad revenue. Ecosia invests profits from search ads into global reforestation projects, making web searches more environmentally friendly. Intel’s Green Computing Initiatives – Develops low-power-consuming processors for eco-friendly computing. Intel's innovations in energy-efficient chips help reduce electricity consumption in computers, servers, and embedded devices. In the End Continuing with advancements in technology means businesses should place a high priority on sustainability. Sustainable software development practices help companies reduce carbon footprints, save costs, and develop more effective, durable digital solutions. Green coding is not just for the company's sake but for an edge in a swiftly evolving industry. Arpatech has established an everlasting commitment toward standards of sustainable development in order to push your organization to ever higher performance. With our expertise in sustainable software development, we keep you one step ahead of your adversaries, all the while maintaining a positive impact on the environment. Let’s build a greener, smarter, and more sustainable future together. Frequently Asked Questions 1. What are the 5 areas of sustainable software development? The five key areas include: Energy Efficiency: Reducing power consumption in software operations through optimized coding and infrastructure. Resource Optimization: Minimizing server, CPU, and memory usage to decrease overall energy demand. Longevity and Scalability: Creating durable, scalable solutions that require fewer updates and reduce digital waste. Eco-Friendly Infrastructure: Using green cloud services and hosting to lower carbon footprints. User Awareness: Encouraging responsible software use and minimal digital waste by promoting sustainability best practices. 2. What is sustainability in software development? Software development sustainability describes software solutions developed and designed in a way that reduces environmental impact, optimizes energy efficiency, and allows long-term usability with minimum waste. 3. What is the cost of sustainable software development? The expenses connected to sustainable software development differ depending on factors like the technology used, optimization efforts put in, What software you require (is it CRM or ERP software), and infrastructure investments made. While it may involve higher initial investment, it brings long-term cost advantages through energy-efficient ways of working and reduced maintenance. So, you’re thinking about fintech app development? Great choice! A booming fintech market has turned financial technology apps into the revolutionary way for people to handle money. Fintech applications allow anyone and everyone to conveniently and easily transfer funds, invest, or manage expenses. But where do you start? How do you turn your idea into a successful fintech app? Let’s break it down into simple steps. First things first: What is Fintech? And Why Is It So Popular? Fintech (financial technology) indicates any technology-based solution that accelerates, secures, and optimizes financial services. Consider PayPal or Venmo; all these apps are real-life examples of fintech. But fintech is much bigger than just digital wallets or stock trading. The fintech market includes a range of solutions. the most common types of Fintech Apps with Real-Life Examples like: Banking Apps: Mobile banking, digital wallets Investment & Trading Apps: Stock market apps, crypto exchanges Lending & Loan Apps: Personal loans, business funding Insurance Tech (InsurTech): AI-powered insurance management Regulatory Technology (RegTech): Fraud detection, compliance monitoring Fintech's use cases continue to grow in terms of possible applications. From a business or individual sense, it is the most convenient, safest, and quickest way of sending or transferring data, also helping to avoid the dreaded bank queues, as artificial intelligence and blockchain now make transactions safe, while payments and approvals take only a few seconds to process. What is Fintech App Development? (Step-by-Step Guide) Now that we know why fintech is important, let’s talk about how to build a fintech app from scratch. Step 1: Define Your Fintech App Idea First, decide what problem your app will solve. Are you building a budgeting app like Mint? A payment solution like PayPal? A cryptocurrency wallet like Coinbase? Before starting the fintech app development process, ask yourself the right questions: Who is my target audience? (Businesses, investors, everyday users?) What unique feature does my app offer? How will my app stand out from competitors? Having a clear idea from the start will make the fintech app development process much easier. Step 2: Know the Legal & Security Requirements Fintech apps deal with sensitive data, so security becomes the most important. Regulations like GDPR in Europe, the PCI DSS payment security standard, and the KYC bank identity verification policy have to be followed by your fintech application. Building bank-grade security features like encryption, two-factor authentication (2FA), and AI fraud detection can also ensure the maximum protection of user data and transactions. Step 3: Choose the Right Tech Stack The Tech Stacks Used for Fintech Mobile App Development depend on whether you choose a native or cross-platform approach and the kind of app you want. Here are some common tech stacks: Backend: Python, Java, Node.js Frontend: React Native, Flutter Database: MySQL, MongoDB AI Integration: Machine Learning, Chatbots Blockchain (for Crypto & Security): Ethereum, Hyperledger If you’re unsure, hire an experienced fintech app development company to guide you. Step 4: Design a Simple, User-Friendly Interface Users don’t want a complicated app. Your app should be: Intuitive and Easy to navigate (Simple buttons & clear menus) Visually appealing (Minimalist, modern design) Fast & responsive (No lag or crashes) Step 5: Build and Test Your App Once the design is finalized, the coding process for the application commences, including payment integrations, analytics, and security APIs. Testing comes next, as it is one of the most important stages in the development process that can't be skipped to avoid possible bugs and security risks.. Make sure to test: Performance: Does the app load quickly? Security: Can hackers access sensitive data? User Experience: Is the app intuitive and smooth? Step 6: Launch, Market, and Maintain Your App Time to go live. But launching a fintech app isn’t just about uploading it to the App Store or Google Play. You need a solid marketing plan to attract users in the fintech market. Run ads on social media Offer discounts or referral bonuses to get new users Get reviews from early users to build trust Once the app is launched, continuous updates and security patches are essential to keep it functional and compliant with regulations. Use Cases of Fintech Wondering how fintech is making an impact? Here are some common fintech use cases and real-life examples of fintech: Mobile Banking Apps (e.g., Revolut, Chime) Gone are the days of running to the bank in a frenzy or standing for hours in long queues! Imagine banking on the go at home. With mobile banking apps, you can check your balance, pay bills, transfer funds, and download all the features within the comfort of your phone. Your bank is always open to suit your money management needs day or night, at your convenience. Investment Platforms (e.g., Robinhood, Wealthfront) Investing was once regarded as an activity reserved for Wall Street professionals. Not any longer! These apps allow investors to buy stocks, bonds, and ETFs with just a couple of taps. Whether you're a newbie or a pro, features such as AI advice and automated portfolio management are making investing simpler, smarter, and more accessible than ever before. Cryptocurrency Wallets (e.g., Coinbase, Binance) Got crypto? This wallet equipment will protect your digital assets as they are bought, sold, and traded. The wallets give you great security with the help of multi-factor authentication and private key encryption designs, and therefore you'll feel safe in your crypto journey. Payment Solutions (e.g., PayPal, Stripe, and PayIt) Moving money should be simple, and that is what these payment applications are designed to do! Be it for coffee, e-commerce and business shopping, or running a business, these apps ensure a smooth transaction interface. They help transfers in multiple currencies and integrate directly with e-commerce platforms while also coming with built-in fraud protection. And goodies like STC Pay, Mada Pay, and Tamara in Saudi Arabia, and PayIt in Dubai, are giving a local twist to digital payments. Personal Finance Apps (e.g., Mint, YNAB) Those are good questions: where did all your money go? Personal finance apps help you track your expenditure, set budgets, and achieve savings goals, all without the agony of spreadsheets. With real-time insights and automatic expense categorization, there really is no effort needed in managing finances, which simply allows for being in control and planning for the future. These real-life examples of fintech highlight how diverse and essential fintech solutions have become. Benefits of Fintech App Development What Are The Advantages Of Developing Fintech Apps? What are your thoughts? Developing a fintech app has several advantages, including: Enhanced User Convenience Say goodbye to long bank lines and inconvenient hours! Fintech apps let you take care of your finances anytime, anywhere. Whether you're lounging at home, grabbing coffee, or traveling. Need to send money at midnight? No problem. Your bank is now as flexible as your lifestyle. Better Financial Management Tools Finances can feel like an uphill battle, but lucky for you, fintech apps are here to save the day. AI in App Modernization, automatic budgeting, spending alerts, and smart AI-driven insights give you a personal finance assistant in your pocket. All guesswork is eliminated, just purely useful step-by-step advice guiding you to financial well-being. Increased Security with Encryption and AI Worried about security? You’re not alone! Fintech apps protect your money with a fingerprint login, encrypted transactions, and AI-based fraud detection. Our fintech apps show you how there are so many benefits of AI in mobile app development. Your financial information is really well-guarded so that you can spend, save, and invest free of worries.. Wider Market Reach Through Digital Solutions For any business, fintech is not just an evolution; it is a paradigm shift. With digital payments, online lending, and virtual banking, doors can be opened to the customers worldwide, erasing borders and making financial services more accessible than ever. From a local grocery shop to a multinational enterprise, fintech gives these entities easy access to a wider audience. Higher Customer Engagement and Retention It is not just usefulness that defines a good app; rather, engagement captures the soul of a great app. Personalized money tips, user-friendly dashboards, and seamless service integrations keep users hooked, with fintech apps ensuring that more customers are committed and happier in their use of the app. If done right, your fintech app can revolutionize the industry and attract millions of users. Future of Fintech App Development Fintech app development is an exciting and profitable field. With the right idea, technology, and security measures, you can build a fintech app that improves financial services and attracts millions of users. If you’re serious about fintech, start today and bring your innovative app to life. Need help with development? Reach out to Arpatech, a leading fintech app development company and turn your idea into reality. Frequently Asked Questions 1. What fintech app development company is the best? There are several top-rated fintech development companies, including: Arpatech (Full-stack fintech solutions) Fingent (Custom fintech software development) Appinventiv (AI-powered fintech apps) The best company for you depends on your budget, app complexity, and required features. 2. What is the AI solution for fintech? AI is transforming fintech in many ways, Now many organizations are providing services in AIaaS: Fraud detection (AI algorithms detect suspicious transactions) Robo-advisors (AI suggests smart investment strategies) Personalized banking (AI analyzes spending habits to offer financial advice) Popular AI solutions in fintech include Feedzai, ThetaRay, PayIt, and Personetics. 3. Do you recommend a native app or cross-platform app for fintech app development? This depends on your requirements and on what app you want. In one respect, native apps (iOS and Android separately) perform better and are more secure; in another direction, cross-platform apps (with Flutter, React Native) are less expensive to develop and take less development time. 4. How long does it take to build a financial app? Building a fintech app can take anywhere from 4 to 12 months, depending on the app's complexity, features, and compliance requirements. Let’s be honest; technology never stands still, and neither does the world of Software Development. Being aware of the trends in AI and DevOps can level the playing field for you whether you are a startup finding your footing or a grizzled hands-down player in an arena seeking to catch up with the tech game. So, if you are curious to know what lies ahead for DevOps in 2025, your curiosity is rightly placed. Let’s dive into the 5 Key Trends of DevOps-as-a-Service and everything else you need to keep an eye on. First Things First: What is DevOps as a Service? If you’ve ever asked yourself, "What is DevOps as a Service?", here’s the simplest way to put it: imagine combining the best of software development and IT operations, then handing off the heavy lifting to a cloud-based service. That’s DevOps-as-a-Service (DaaS) in a nutshell. DevOps as a managed service takes care of your development and operations in place of doing all the work yourself. Managing infrastructure, tools, and deployment pipelines; it's like having a turbocharged tech team at your beck and call; no hiring, no training, just results. 5 Key Trends of DevOps-as-a-Service in 2025 Alright, let’s talk about the big stuff coming in 2025. These trends are set to shake things up and in a good way. AI and Machine Learning Will Supercharge Automation Automation has always been an integral part of DevOps, but now with the invention of AI and ML beside the automation engine, automation has ascended to the next level. Real-time anomaly detection, predictive analysis, and self-healing systems are some examples of these technologies. These intelligent applications are capable of catching problems before they happen, thus saving time and money. Security Will Move to the Left (Shift-Left Security) Cyber threats are evolving with cleverness by the day; thus, security is integrated early into the development processes-mostly called Shift-Left Security. It is through DevOps as a service that built-in security features and tools will ramp up in security in 2025, reducing ugly surprises later. Serverless Architecture Will Gain Momentum Serverless computing has been a choice for many enterprises these days, so there is nothing for you to worry about as the server will not be in your picture at all. With AWS and similar DevOps as a Service platforms, code deployment is fast and inexpensive and you only pay for what you consume. Highly flexible, scalable, and efficient. Platform Engineering Will Rise 2025 will be the year of platform engineering. DevOps teams will start building customized DevOps platform-as-a-service solutions, giving developers tailored environments with exactly the tools they need. This speeds up workflows and reduces frustration. Greater Focus on Observability and Monitoring What you cannot perceive, you cannot repair. Hence observability- a fancy word for understanding what goes on inside your system- is becoming indispensable. Many devops-as-a-service platforms and tools have integrated features for real-time monitoring, alerting, and analyzing, enabling smooth exit strategies against any possible hiccups. Examples of DevOps-as-a-Service Platforms and Tools Let’s make it concrete. Here are some examples of DevOps-as-a-Service platforms and tools you’ll come across and this is how DevOps supports your workflows: AWS DevOps DevOps as a service AWS tools range from automated code pipelines to provisioning and monitoring tools for infrastructure. Services like AWS CodePipeline, AWS CodeBuild, and CloudFormation enable one to build, test, and deploy apps quickly and efficiently. However, it really comes into its own if you are running your infrastructure on AWS. Azure DevOps An all-in-one solution for application planning, development, testing, and deployment, Microsoft comprises Azure Repos, Pipelines, and Boards to manage an entire project lifecycle effortlessly. Integration can be done within Microsoft products and open-source tools, thus creating a flexible environment for developer needs. GitLab GitLab aligns coding and CI/CD down one path. This allows teams to collaborate in coding, run automated testing, and deploy faster all-in-one-place. With integrated security, monitoring, and versioning capabilities, GitLab stands as the ideal solution for teams wanting one answer from idea to creation. Jenkins X This is a cloud-native version of Jenkins customized for Kubernetes environments. It simplifies CI/CD in the cloud by automating builds, tests, and deployments. Jenkins X supports GitOps workflows, making it a solid choice if you’re all-in on containerized, microservices-based applications. CircleCI CircleCI is primarily recognized for being quite fast and scalable in the automation of software testing and deployment. It's multi-lingual in terms of programming languages and also plays very well with GitHub, Bitbucket, and Docker. Performance, along with customizability, is one reason that CircleCI is great for most teams that require very fast feedback loops and efficient pipelines. These business intelligence tools for startups and medium-sized enterprises assist in moving all the building material from the ground into fruition to create stronger workflows without a need for starting everything from scratch. Ultimately, you get reliable, out-of-the-box performance, automation, and flexibility. What Are the Benefits of DevOps-as-a-Service? Let’s talk value. Here’s what you gain: Speed DaaS tools enable faster development and deployment by automating repetitive tasks and reducing manual errors. This means your team can roll out new features or updates quickly, keeping you ahead of competitors. Scalability You can scale resources up or down as your needs change. Whether you're handling a small app or a massive platform, DevOps-as-a-Service grows with you, without the hassle of managing infrastructure manually. Cost-Effective Since most services follow a pay-as-you-go model, you only pay for what you use. This can significantly reduce overhead costs, especially for startups or small businesses that can’t afford a full in-house DevOps team. Expertise You gain access to specialized tools and industry best practices without needing to hire experts. This lets your team benefit from the latest tech advancements and security standards right out of the gate. Focus Let your developers concentrate on what they do best, bringing products to life rather than watching over server management, infrastructure, or keeping tools spinning in maintenance. This is a productivity enhancement and a team morale boost as well. DevOps-as-a-Service Best Practices To get the most bang for your buck, here are a few DevOps-as-a-service best practices: Start Small A full relocation at once can turn out to be quite harrowing and risky; rather, you start with a pilot project, test the waters, and move out as you gain confidence and experience. Choose the Right Provider Not all DevOps services are created equal. Look for a provider whose features align with your specific business needs, whether that’s compliance, scalability, or integrations with your existing tools. Monitor Performance Keep a close eye on key performance indicators (KPIs) like deployment frequency, failure rates, and response times. This helps you measure success and make adjustments as needed. Prioritize Security Security should never be an afterthought. Always embed security measures early in the development cycle like DevSecOps services should be the priority. They use providers that offer encryption, access controls, and regular audits. Encourage Collaboration The essence of DevOps lies in its team spirit. Promote a culture of shared responsibility, open communication, and continuous feedback to remove the walls between development and operations. Learn more here and get to know the 10 best DevOps practices. What is the Cost of DevOps-as-a-Service? Alright, let’s talk money. What is the cost of DevOps-as-a-Service? Well, it depends. Some services charge per user, others per project complexity, and some offer tiered pricing. Here’s a ballpark: Small businesses: $500 - $5,000/month Mid-size companies: $5,000 - $20,000/month Large enterprises: Custom pricing based on requirements Remember, while the price might seem steep at first glance, the time saved and efficiency gained often outweigh the cost. Final Thoughts In 2025, DevOps-as-a-Service is going to be more powerful, more automated, and more essential than ever. Whether you’re just getting started or looking to optimize your existing workflows, keeping an eye on these trends will help you stay ahead of the curve. At the end of the day, it’s all about building better software that is faster and smarter. So, outsource DevOps as a service, if you want to win against the competition. Collaborate with the finest developers in the area by reaching out to Arpatech’s help center and let’s figure out what your project requires to succeed. Frequently Asked Questions 1. What is the meaning of DevOps as a service? It means outsourcing your DevOps needs to a cloud-based platform or provider. They handle tools, infrastructure, and automation so you can focus on building and shipping your product. 2. What is the difference between DevOps and SaaS? DevOps is a set of practices to develop and deploy software faster and more reliably. SaaS (Software as a Service) delivers software over the internet. DevOps as a Service is kind of a mix, it delivers DevOps tools and services through the cloud, similar to SaaS. 3. Is DevOps only for the cloud? No, while DevOps-as-a-Service typically runs in the cloud, DevOps principles can be applied to on-site systems too. That said, wherever the cloud is applied, it makes scaling and automation much easier. 4. What is the lifecycle of DevOps? The DevOps lifecycle includes: Plan Develop Build Test Release Deploy Operate Monitor It’s a continuous loop that repeats to improve software over time. 5. What are the 7 C's of DevOps? The 7 C’s of DevOps are as follows: Continuous Integration Continuous Deployment Continuous Testing Continuous Delivery Continuous Monitoring Continuous Feedback Continuous Operations These help ensure your software is always improving and ready for anything. One of the biggest factors why businesses are succeeding today is thaeir increasing migration to the cloud, finding the right cloud consulting company is crucial for success. Whether you want to migrate to public cloud vs private cloud vs hybrid cloud, Cloud consulting companies help businesses with cloud strategy, migration, optimization, and security. Today, we will be discussing the top cloud consulting companies in 2025, with a comparison of their services and expertise. So, without further ado, let’s start with the first company: 1. Arpatech Arpatech is one of the leading cloud consulting companies that provides its customers with cloud solutions, from cloud strategy to cloud migration consulting and managed services. It mainly focuses on cloud transformation, enabling businesses to engage in a real cloud journey through its end-to-end role in cloud-managed services while optimizing performance and security. Skills include AWS, Azure, and Google Cloud, making it one of the top cloud migration consulting companies for 2025. Arpatech stands out due to its customized approach to cloud solutions, ensuring businesses achieve maximum efficiency and security. With its unique adaptability, it has been able to address the varied needs of the industry and make it possible to serve customers of all sizes, particularly targeting small and medium-sized businesses. Key Services: Cloud strategy and migration Cloud-native application development DevOps and cloud security solutions Managed cloud services 2. Opinov8 Digital and Engineering Solutions Opinov8 Digital and Engineering Solutions is one of the cloud transformation consulting companies that offer customized solutions for businesses looking to optimize cloud environments. They provide services in cloud integration, DevOps automation, and cloud-native development. Opinov8 is recognized for being able to enhance cloud efficiency while reducing operational costs. They enhance the creation of innovative cloud strategies that fit modern business requirements with their strong emphasis on digital engineering. Key Services: Cloud strategy and assessment DevOps and automation Hybrid cloud solutions Custom software development 3. NaNLABS NaNLABS is an innovative cloud computing consulting company known for its expertise in software architecture and cloud transformation. They help businesses build and scale cloud-native applications, offering services in website migration to cloud and DevOps implementation. The team specializes in scalable architectural design to help businesses move seamlessly to the cloud without a hitch. NaNLABS stands tall amongst its peers for its commitment to delivering high-performance, flexible, and scalable cloud solutions. Key Services: Cloud-native software development Cloud infrastructure automation Scalable architecture design Serverless computing solutions 4. Stackgenie Amazon Web Services cloud consulting companies have come to recognize Stackgenie for its cloud migration, cloud infrastructure management, security, and performance optimization services. Their profound knowledge of AWS, Azure, and Kubernetes guarantees the best possible cloud solutions for the business world. With a thorough knowledge of the cloud ecosystems, Stackgenie assists businesses in streamlining processes, cutting down on downtime, enhancing security, and optimizing solutions. Their solutions are designed for both enterprises and startups seeking a competitive edge. Key Services: AWS and Azure cloud consulting Cloud migration and security DevOps implementation Kubernetes and containerization 5. Emergent Software Emergent Software is also one of the top cloud services consulting companies, providing end-to-end cloud transformation solutions. They focus on cloud optimization, cloud cryptography, security, and compliance for enterprises looking to modernize their infrastructure. Emergent Software differentiates itself by providing cutting-edge automation tools and cloud-native solutions. Their approach to modernization helps businesses future-proof their cloud environments with enhanced security measures. Key Services: Cloud architecture and security Legacy system modernization Cloud compliance and governance AI-driven cloud automation 6. Qubika Qubika is one of the emerging cloud consulting companies in USA that thrives on creating custom cloud solutions for enterprises and startups. Their offerings include cloud development, automation, and hybrid cloud management. An impressive specialization in hybrid and multi-cloud environments makes the company able to deploy cloud products that are highly scalable and economical at the same time. Tailoring cloud strategies based on business goals makes Qubika a strong competitor in the market. Key Services: Multi-cloud strategy and deployment Cloud application modernization DevOps and cloud automation Scalable cloud infrastructure solutions 7. IT Outposts IT Outposts, being a niche player in cloud migration consulting comapnies, is known for executing cloud transitions with minimal downtime for client businesses. With a stronghold of skills in cloud solution security and DevOps automation, they qualify as trustworthy partners for enterprises. Key Services: Cloud migration and support DevOps and CI/CD automation Infrastructure as Code (IaC) Cloud security and compliance Conclusion Organizations must choose the right cloud consulting company who can significantly impact a business’s digital transformation. Whether you're looking for Google Cloud, Azure, AWS cloud consulting companies, cloud services consulting companies, or specialized cloud migration consulting companies who offer cloud cost optimization solutions, these top 7 firms offer the best expertise and solutions for 2025. Investing in the right partner ensures a secure, scalable, and efficient cloud journey. Work with cloud experts at Arpatech and let’s drive your business forward. Frequently Asked Questions 1. What are cloud consulting companies? Cloud consulting companies provide expert guidance on cloud adaptability, migration and security. These companies enable businesses to implement cloud strategies that improve scalability, cost-efficiency, and security. 2. What are the 3 biggest cloud consulting firms? The three biggest cloud computing consulting companies are: Accenture: They offer enterprise-standard cloud transformation and AI-driven solutions. IBM Global Services: provides hybrid cloud consulting and advanced security solutions. Arpatech: Works with businesses who need to migrate to cloud architecture and require enterprise cloud strategy. 3. What is the fastest-growing cloud provider? Today, the fastest-growing cloud provider is Google Cloud. This is because of its AI and machine learning methodologies, with its competitive pricing and security elements. 4. What are the 4 main cloud services? The four main cloud services everyone should know about are: Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS): Virtualized computing resources like servers and storage. Platform as a Service (PaaS): Cloud platforms for application development and deployment. Software as a Service (SaaS): Cloud-based software applications available over the internet. Function as a Service (FaaS): Serverless computing that runs code in response to events. Cloud computing has taken the world by storm, and businesses in Saudi Arabia are no exception. From small and medium-sized businesses to large enterprises, more and more companies are moving their operations to the cloud to enjoy flexibility, scalability, and security. Managing cloud infrastructure commands a level of complexity and is very time-consuming. This is when one turns to managed cloud services. Here, we will break down the managed cloud services, how they work, their benefits, and their drawbacks, so you can make an informed decision for your business. What Are Managed Cloud Services? Before we explore the specifics, We need to answer this question: What is a Managed Cloud service? In simple terms, managed cloud services are outsourced cloud management solutions provided by third-party experts. You leave the cloud infrastructure, security, and updates to a managed cloud services provider. View it as hiring a driver for your car: You retain the ownership of the vehicle, but the driver maintains its smooth functioning while you get to your destination. How Managed Cloud Services Work A managed cloud service provider assumes the responsibility for the maintenance and optimization of your cloud environment. Services may include: Cloud Storage and Backup The vendor secures the sensitive business information stored in the cloud and provides backup solutions against accidental deletion, cyber-attacking, or system failure. Security and Compliance Managed service providers place firewalls and encryption, perform security updates, and protect the infrastructure against threats. They also support various compliance regulations such that sensitive information remains protected. Network Management They monitor traffic to keep the load balanced and safeguard connectivity, thereby optimizing your cloud network. This promotes fast, secure access to applications and data for users. Application Hosting Your applications, whether business tools, e-commerce platforms, or customer portals, are hosted and maintained in the cloud by experts. They ensure optimal performance, seamless updates, and round-the-clock availability. Disaster Recovery In case of system failures, cyberattacks, or natural disasters, a managed cloud service ensures your business operations continue uninterrupted by implementing strong disaster recovery plans. Types of Managed Cloud Services You must be wondering; what are the cloud managed services types? There are several types and role of cloud managed services, each catering to different business needs: Infrastructure Management Services Cloud servers, data storage, and the whole infrastructure are catered by these services. Businesses can increase or decrease requirement resources according to their demand to save costs and offer cloud cost optimization. Managed Security Services A major concern when you migrate to cloud architecture is security. Some of these services include firewalls, intrusion detection systems, and threat monitoring to safeguard business-sensitive data. Managed Backup and Disaster Recovery Businesses must prepare for unexpected failures. These services ensure that in case of data loss, businesses can quickly restore their systems and avoid prolonged downtime. Managed Application Services Once cloud-hosted applications are up and running, they must be managed and supported. Managed service providers handle the software updates, bug fixes, and performance enhancements to enable smooth functioning applications. Managed Compliance Services All businesses are required to operate under industry regulations, such as GDPR, HIPAA, or SOC 2. This service ensures that cloud environments comply with laws and security standards, avoiding possible breaches or penalties. What Are the Benefits of Managed Cloud Services in Cloud Computing? When it comes to managed cloud services in cloud computing, You must be wondering; what are the benefits of managed Cloud services? you get a wide range of advantages if you allow a cloud expert to look after your services. Some are as follows: Cost Efficiency Cloud management can help businesses save up on costs as it can hire experts for it instead of spending fortune on an in-house IT team. Costs are predictable as managed services are paid on a subscription model. However, while organizations hire skilled professionals to do work for them, such educated outsourcing would continue to save them costs instead of hiring an expensive in-house IT team to manage cloud-based services. Expert Support The provision for a company to avoid employing in-house expertise is possible because it outsources its operations to a team of highly skilled cloud cryptography specialists. The continuous proactive monitoring, troubleshooting, and performance optimization of the systems are, however, ensured by the provider. Security & Compliance Cloud providers implement strong security protocols, keeping data safe from cyber threats. They also ensure compliance with legal frameworks, reducing the risk of penalties and data breaches. Scalability Businesses can scale up or down depending on their requirements. Whether handling a sudden traffic surge or reducing resources during off-peak periods, what managed services in cloud offer is flexibility. 24/7 Monitoring Downtime can result in business losses. Managed service providers continuously monitor cloud performance, detecting and resolving issues before they impact business operations. Disadvantages of Managed Cloud Services While managed cloud hosting has its perks, it also has some drawbacks: Less Control Businesses relying on a managed services provider may have limited direct access to their infrastructure, which can be an issue for companies that require full control over their systems. Potential Costs While managed services can save money on in-house IT, premium plans with extensive features can be costly. Businesses should carefully evaluate pricing plans to ensure they align with their budget. Vendor Dependency Once a company chooses a provider, switching to another can be complex due to technical dependencies, service agreements, and data migration challenges. Understanding the pros and cons of managed cloud services helps businesses make the right decision. Why Do Organizations Need Managed Cloud Services? Businesses in Saudi Arabia are increasingly adopting managed cloud solutions to, Learn about the Top 7 cloud consulting companies and why have they migrated to the cloud: Reduce IT Workload Organizations can now concentrate more on their core business activities rather than wasting time managing IT, they leave the role of cloud infrastructure management with the service provider.. They would then have focused and improved productivity. Improve Security Cloud security managed by experts turns risks into certainty and leaves organizations with data protection. With the increasing global development in cyber threats, organizations cannot afford to ignore such things. Optimize performance Managed services fine-tune cloud environments, ensuring applications run smoothly, loading times are minimized, and user experiences are enhanced. Ensure business continuity The managed cloud services reduce downtime and prevent revenue loss due to untimely failures by implementing backup strategies and disaster recovery plans. For instance, most retailers in Riyadh use managed cloud hosting to manage heavy traffic loads during peak shopping seasons. Otherwise, it would have been very difficult to maintain an uninterrupted flow of operations. What Are Managed Cloud Services Examples? Some common managed cloud services examples include: Amazon Web Services (AWS) Managed Services AWS offers cloud management, website migration to cloud, security, and performance optimization services tailored for businesses of all sizes. Microsoft Azure Managed Services Azure provides cloud infrastructure, AI-driven automation, and robust security solutions to streamline operations. Google Cloud Managed Services Google’s managed cloud offerings include data analytics, machine learning, and cloud storage solutions designed for scalability. IBM Cloud Managed Services IBM specializes in hybrid cloud solutions, integrating on-premises infrastructure with cloud-based services for greater efficiency. Final Thoughts If your Saudi Arabian businesses are moving to the cloud, managed cloud services can save time, money, and frustration. An expert managed cloud services provider like Arpatech can help to keep your cloud environment secure, optimized, and available so you can focus on growing your business. Frequently Asked Questions 1. What are the 4 main cloud services? The four main types of cloud services are: Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS) Delivers cloud-based servers, virtual machines, and storage solutions. Companies are still able to buy hardware, but they have the option of renting computer power. Platform as a Service (PaaS) Reduces the dependencies on back-end set-ups by providing users with or local set-ups by providing users with the development tools and framework for building, testing, and deploying applications in the cloud. Software as a Service (SaaS) Delivers many software applications fully implemented and running on remote computers accessed by users over the internet, such as Gmail, Microsoft 365, and Dropbox, hence relieving the burden of local installations. Function as a Service (FaaS) Also known as serverless computing; in this scenario, the developers have the flexibility to run their own code without having to worry about managing servers, thereby creating an ideal platform for event-driven applications. 2. What is the difference between managed cloud and hosted cloud? Cloud-hosted infrastructure, on the other hand, remains the sole responsibility of the user since all updates, installation, security, and monitoring must be processed by the business. Managed cloud includes infrastructure, management, support, security, and monitoring by experts, thereby relieving the IT burden. 3. What are managed cloud services in cloud computing? The Managed cloud providers offer third-party services that manage cloud infrastructure, security, and operations for businesses. This enables all businesses to focus on their core activities instead of their IT infrastructure. Dubai, a global hub for innovation and technology, has become a prime destination for businesses that are looking for high-quality web and mobile app development services. With its thriving economy and diverse industries, The Middle Eastern country has thousands of web and mobile app development companies that develop applications keeping in view the local as well as international markets. Today, we will enable you to access everything you need to know to find and work with a web and mobile app development company in Dubai. What is Web and Mobile App Development? Web and mobile app development is the process concerning planning, designing, writing, testing, and maintaining software applications for different platforms and particular markets. Now, you must be wondering, What is a web app, and is creating a web app easy? While mobile apps are designed to run on mobile devices like smartphones or tablets, web apps are software programs that are controlled by a web browser. Thus, companies in Dubai use both kinds of apps to give their clients a smooth online experience. Why Choose a Web and Mobile App Development Company in Dubai? Dubai’s web and mobile app development landscape is unique for several reasons: Global Talent Pool The city attracts top talent from around the world, thishe immigration of global talent in the city enables access to skilled developers, designers, and engineers with different expertise in various technologies and frameworks. Innovative Technology Such advanced technologies as AI, Blockchain, AR, and advanced data analytics are being deployed in web and mobile app development companies in Dubai to create meaningful, highly customized applications that are able to cater to any progressive needs in data gathering and analysis. Smart Dubai aims to achieve the status of a smart city and, therefore, advances a tech culture where enterprises can live ahead of global trends and adopt modern practices so that their clients benefit from state-of-the-art solutions. Diverse Portfolio Dubai's strong economy spans many industries, including real estate, hospitality, healthcare, finance, and AI applications for e-commerce and businesses. These web and mobile app development firms in Dubai were highly experienced in most of these sectors and quick learners related to different types of client requirements. Multilingual Expertise As a city with residents and businesses from all over the globe, Dubai’s web and mobile app development companies are skilled in creating multilingual applications and adding AI in App modernization. That will guarantee fantastic communication and engagement with customers from all walks of life. How to Create a Web App Development You want to learn how to build a web app development? What are the different stages in web and mobile app development? so, Creating a web app involves several stages: Planning and Research Identify the core aim of the application determine the target audience define the key features. This phase is characterized by a competitor analysis and market research to ensure the web app meets the industry needs as well as the expectations of the users. Wireframing & UI/UX Designing The templates are sketched out with the application layout, and the development of the user interface (UI) is done in an approachable manner. At that precise instance, the UX design is counteractive for the simple reason that enhancement is done on navigation, accessibility, and engagement to increase user satisfaction. Development The relevant technology stack, which includes both front-end and back-end frameworks, should be decided and coding started. This involves developing the required features and making it responsive as well as incorporating any required APIs. Testing To find and address issues, boost security, and increase efficiency, do extensive testing. Functional, usability, compatibility, and performance testing across various browsers and devices are all included in the testing process. Deployment & Maintenance Launch the application on a web server and provide ongoing updates, security patches, and performance optimizations to keep the web app running smoothly and efficiently. How to Build a Web App Development How do you think a progressive web app development company in Dubai works? Building a web app requires: Choosing a Framework Select a front-end framework like React, Angular, or Vue.js to ensure a dynamic and responsive user interface. Using Backend Technologies Implement backend frameworks such as Node.js, Django, or Laravel to handle server-side processes and data management efficiently. Integrating Databases When it comes to web and app development, databases like MongoDB, MySQL, or Firebase are used to store and retrieve data securely and timely. Ensuring Cross-Platform Compatibility Conduct rigorous testing on multiple devices and browsers to guarantee optimal performance and user experience. Choosing the Right Web and Mobile App Development Company in Dubai With so many options available, selecting the right development partner can be daunting. Here are some tips to help you make the best choice: Establish Your Objectives Clearly define what your project is all about, who will be your audience or users, and your business goals. This will give you a better understanding to communicate with any potential development company. Check Their Portfolio Go over some of those previous projects so as to see whether they have had their mettle tested and proved by experience in your own industry. Read through client reviews and testimonials found on sites such as Google, Clutch, or Trustpilot to determine the company's reputation and trustworthiness in the view of others who have been there. Evaluate Their Technical Expertise The organization should have familiarity with the latest technologies and tools relevant to your project. Discuss Timelines and Budget Confirm that the company can complete and deliver your project within the required timeline and budget. Assess Communication Skills Lastly, choose a company that communicates effectively and provides regular updates throughout the project. The Cost of Web and Mobile App Development in Dubai The cost of web and mobile app development in Dubai varies depending on factors such as: Complexity of the Project Simple applications with basic features are more affordable compared to complex, custom-built platforms. Design Requirements Custom designs and advanced UI/UX elements can increase costs. Technology Stack The choice of programming languages, frameworks, and tools influences pricing. Additional Features Integrations like e-commerce functionality, multilingual support, or advanced analytics add to the overall cost. On average: A basic web or mobile app can cost anywhere between AED 10,000 to AED 50,000. More complex applications range from AED 50,000 to AED 200,000 or more. Benefits of Hiring a Dubai-Based Web and Mobile App Development Company 1. Local Market Knowledge Firms operating in Dubai have a thorough understanding of the area with respect to business mentality, current industry trends, and consumer behavior. They understand what appeals to the Middle Eastern audience, thus creating applications that satisfy such local expectations. This includes anything from Arabic language options to culturally relevant interface design to integrating region-specific payment gateway systems. This knowledge makes sure the application's arrival strikes the right role with the target audience. 2. Time Zone Convenience If you have a professional relationship with a Dubai-based company, it lessens the pain of offshore outsourcing across time zone differences. Hence, real-time communication, almost instant feedback, and continuous iterations keep the project going to address all the important issues, modifications, or improvements early, thereby reducing cycles and enabling timely delivery of projects.. 3. AI Integration There are countless benefits of AI in mobile app development. It enables personalized user experiences, automates processes, and improves efficiency. It powers features like chatbots, voice recognition, and predictive analytics, making apps smarter and more intuitive. AI also strengthens security with fraud detection and biometric authentication. Overall, the advantages of AI in mobile app development boost performance, engagement, and user satisfaction. 4. Regulatory Compliance The demanding laws in Dubai for digital platforms, data protection, and online transactions have made local app development companies fully aware of such legal regulations. Consequently, your app will likely comply with the cybersecurity laws of the UAE, data privacy laws, well-founded industry-specific guidelines, and so forth. Knowledge of the laws that form part of the regulations against legal risks and serve as a prevention from possible compliance breaches includes those like the UAE's Personal Data Protection Law (PDPL) and e-commerce laws. Final Thoughts App development companies like Arpatech, have a lot to offer in terms of experience, irrespective of the fact if you need web app development for a startup or if it is for an established business trying to rebrand itself. Choosing an appropriate partner for web app development services can yield an application that fulfills the needs of your company and thereby helps to ensure long-term success for you in a very competitive online marketplace. Much groundwork, assessment, and communication should be done before getting into the app development process to ensure that your project is in capable hands. Frequently Asked Questions What is the difference between mobile web and app development? A mobile web app simply runs on a browser and does not need downloading, while an app is installed on a device to allow it to function without being connected. What is an example of a mobile application development? A couple of the most well-known mobile applications are Instagram, Uber, and WhatsApp, which deliver interactive and user-friendly experiences. What are the three types of mobile applications? The three types of mobile apps are: 1. native apps: Apps developed for specific operating systems such as iOS or Android. 2. Web apps: accessed via a browser. 3. Hybrid apps: combine the features of both. What is the cost of web and mobile app development in Dubai? The cost varies depending on complexity, design, and additional features, but generally ranges between AED 10,000 to AED 200,000. Let’s build something amazing together. In today’s world, having a strong online presence isn’t just nice to have; it’s a must business requirement! Whether you’re a small startup or a well-built establishment, a great website or mobile app can make a huge difference. If you’re in Dubai and thinking about web and mobile app development Abu Dhabi, here, we are going to tell all about the ins and outs of getting custom web and app development and strategy for small and medium businesses done in the Middle Eastern hub of business. So, let’s dive in! What is Web and Mobile App Development in Abu Dhabi? Web and mobile app development is more about building software applications that will run on web browsers or on mobile devices. Web apps run through internet browsers, while mobile apps are installed directly on smartphones or tablets. These applications have become an everyday essential, assisting businesses in connecting with customers, improving efficiencies, and establishing seamless digital experiences. Web and Mobile App Development Importance? Cloudy skies shadowed the competition for a company in Abu Dhabi today; they would need high-quality web and mobile applications to sail through the storm with the competition. A high-quality web or mobile app creates a strong connection with customers; it increases the business's brand presence and drives revenues. You must really invest in premier web and app Development Abu Dhabi for that added zest for your business. Difference Between Web Development and App Development While both web and app development involve coding and design, there are key differences: Web App Development This is web-based software and can be accessed by all browsers. You don't need to download anything! They may be static (informational) or dynamic (interactive web apps). The website usually does not require any downloads and may be updated in real-time.. Mobile App Development These are apps you download onto your phone or tablet (like the ones you get from the App Store or Google Play). They often provide a smoother, more personalized experience. It involves building applications for mobile devices, available on platforms like iOS and Android. Apps are designed for specific operating systems and require installation, but provide enhanced features like offline functionality and better device integration Both are super useful for businesses looking to connect with customers, streamline operations, and stay on top of their competitors. Why Should You Care About Web and Mobile App Development? Abu Dhabi is a fast-growing tech hub, and businesses here are thriving by going digital. Having a great website or mobile app can: Increase Customer Engagement: A well-designed app or website keeps customers coming back for more. Boost Brand Visibility: A professional online presence makes you look credible and trustworthy. Drive Sales and Growth: A smooth and easy-to-use platform can convert visitors into paying customers. Improve Efficiency: Automating tasks and managing data online can save time and effort. Web Development vs. Mobile App Development - What’s the Difference? Many people confuse web development and mobile application development, but these two are different areas in their capabilities. Web development simply means building websites or web applications that run on any browser. They can include static websites that contain fixed content and are mostly well-suited for a simple business page or dynamic yet contingent on input from users such as social media or e-commerce sites. The main benefits of web development are that you need not download anything, easy to update, and compatibility across all devices. The development of applications in relation to mobile applications, such as iOS or Android, is brought about by calling mobile application development. Apps can either be native, meaning they're created specifically for one platform, thus yielding the best performance, or hybrid, meaning they can work on multiple platforms, albeit with slight cuts on efficiency. Some of the major benefits of mobile apps are being able to work offline, better integration with device features, and personalization for understanding user preferences. Lastly, there's custom web and mobile application development in Abu Dhabi. With innovative tech companies in Abu Dhabi, businesses operating from AI Apps for e-commerce and businesses to healthcare, real estate, and finance are investing in custom web and mobile apps to offer top-class digital experiences. If you are looking for a personalized solution that meets your specific requirements, a professional development team is the way to go. Top Web and Mobile App Development Services in Abu Dhabi Here’s what expert developers in Abu Dhabi offer: 1. Web Development Services Full-Stack Web and Mobile App Development Involving front-end and back-end development to your website is nice and crisp and works well. As the name suggests, front-end developers work on visuals like how things are laid out, what happens when users do something on the page. And developers do all the actual grunt work, such as databases, server management, and application logic. Thus, adopting a full-stack approach will keep everything working together perfectly. Custom Website Layout: With well-designed sites, it is not just about looking better; it can reflect brand identity, clarify messages, and enhance user experience. Developers create one-of-a-kind, custom-built-in networks meeting business goals to make the experience as intuitive as possible and elicit engagement from visitors. Custom designs also improve SEO and make your brand shine in a crowded market. E-commerce Solutions An online shop should be a secure and seamless platform for shopping. E-commerce web development involves installing online shopping with easy navigation, secure payment designs and designs suitable for accessing websites from mobile devices. Developers have concentrated on integrating product searching, shopping carts, order tracking, and customer reviews for user convenience during shopping and for increased sales. Scalability would mean that the store grows with the business. Progressive Web Apps (PWAs) PWAs deliver a speedy, robust, and application-like experience straight through the web browser, wherein users do not have to download anything. They also work offline, load fast, and support push notifications, making them one of the best channels for businesses to engage their users in a manner-free environment away from the limitations of traditional apps. PWAs give an advanced advantage by merging the best web design and mobile app development company in Abu Dhabi experiences with easy access and great performance. 2. Mobile App Development Services Native App Development (iOS & Android) Applications that are really native and developed for the specific operating systems of Apple (Swift) and Android (Kotlin/Java) devices would provide the best performance, security, and operational functionalities. It restrains the smooth experience utilizing specific features of a platform such as Face ID, GPS, and camera access. Native applications work best for companies with high performance and a refined user experience requirement. Hybrid App Development (React Native, Flutter) Instead of developing separate applications for iOS and Android, hybrid apps utilize various frameworks the likes of React Native and Flutter in order to facilitate the development of one codebase that runs on both platforms. This approach reduces the overall cost of development and offers a rapid time-to-market, making it an economically viable solution for businesses targeting a wider audience. User-Friendly UI/UX Design An apt and a fruitful mobile app aren't just about a bagful of features. It needs to have a smooth, intuitive, and visually appealing design. UI looks at the aesthetics while UX ensures easy navigation and functioning. A user-engaging app helps keep its users busy, improves retention rates, and enhances customer satisfaction. App Store Optimization (ASO) The classic SEO method for the web is adapted for ASO, which boosts application findability in App Store and Google Play Store. Title, description, keyword, and visual optimization are exercised to garner visibility and downloads. Fostering good ASO practices enhances organic traffic in that it allows the right audience to get a hold of the app without depending purely on paid advertising. 3. Custom Web App Design and Development Tailored Business Solutions Off-the-shelf software may not satisfy the various needs required of businesses. Customization will guarantee your investment is exactly according to your needs, be it a booking system, an inventory management tool, a CRM platform, or a customer service portal. Increased efficiency, automation in operations, and competitive advantages come packaged with the solutions themselves. Cloud Integration Although data storage both at home and flying can be convenient, it also offers some notable advantages: flexibility, security, and remote access. It helps businesses become efficient in scaling operations, reduce IT spending, and ensure data backups. Integration of clouds ensures perfect collaboration and networking between teams working from anywhere without worries of storage limitations and security risks. API Development & Third-Party Integrations Many businesses want their applications to connect with external tools such as payment gateways, mapping, or social media platforms. API development guarantees smooth data exchange between systems so that businesses can strengthen functionality and gain a better user experience without reinventing the wheel. Real-World Example: How a Web & Mobile App Can Transform Your Business Let’s say you own a fashion store in Abu Dhabi. A website alone can help customers browse and shop, but a mobile app can take it to the next level, especially if it has the advantage of AI in mobile app development. So, here are some Web and Mobile App Development Examples: Personalized push notifications: Send discounts and new arrival alerts directly to their phones. Loyalty programs: Reward your customers with points for every purchase. Faster checkout options: One-click payments make buying effortless. The result? More sales, happier customers, and a stronger brand! How to Choose the Best Web and Mobile App Development Company in Abu Dhabi When choosing the best web design and mobile app development company in Abu Dhabi, consider the following factors: Experience A company with a strong portfolio knows what they’re doing, and they know the benefits of AI in mobile app development. Technical Skills Make sure they offer full-stack development and understand the latest tech. Client Reviews & Testimonials Check what past customers have to say. Custom Solutions You don’t want a cookie-cutter app; go for a company that tailors solutions to your needs. Ongoing Support Apps need updates, so pick a company that offers post-launch maintenance. The right developer will turn your ideas into reality while ensuring a smooth and secure experience for users. Final Thoughts Building a web or mobile app can transform your business, helping you reach more customers and grow faster. If you're in Abu Dhabi, you have access to some of the best tech talent in the form of developers at Arpatech, so why not make the most of it? Start exploring your options today, and bring your digital vision to life! Frequently Asked Questions 1. Are app development and web development the same? Nope! Web development creates websites accessible via browsers, while app development builds software for mobile devices that users need to install. 2. Which is better: mobile app development or web development? It depends! Web app development services are more budget-friendly and accessible, while mobile apps provide a more interactive and engaging experience. 3. How much does web and mobile app development cost in Abu Dhabi? It varies based on complexity. A basic website starts at $5,000, while a feature-rich mobile app can cost $50,000 or more. Get a quote from a professional developer to know exactly what your project will cost. Creating your own Content Management System (CMS) might sound like a big challenge, but with the right approach, you can build one quickly and efficiently. Whether you're a developer or a business owner looking for a custom solution, today we’ll help you learn about how to build a CMS in 2025 and take your small or medium-sized business forward. Let's get started with the right questions: What is a Custom Content Management System (CMS)? A custom CMS is a software platform that allows end-users to make, edit, and manage content on a website with hardly any knowledge of advanced coding. Thus, in some of the commercially available CMS like WordPress or Drupal, a custom CMS is aimed at specific company requirements, providing more flexibility and control. This is why WordPress CMS is best for SMBs. The biggest advantage of a custom CMS is that it extends certain features. You will not have to deal with useless plugins, inefficient code, or templates that were made for the masses and do not line in with your vision. You will actually receive what you require, and this will help create a remarkable and uncomplicated content management experience. But is it worth the effort? Let's explore. Pros and Cons of Creating Your Own CMS Let’s see if building your own CMS is worth the shot in the long run or not. Pros or Let’s Call Them Advantages Customization is always a plus point, no matter what you are doing. You get to experience your vision come to life, without adding anything pre-made. So, let’s see if we can build and design our own CMS: Made-to-Order Functionality A tailor-made CMS is one that includes only relevant features and functionality. It does not allow features that the business does not want, thus resulting in a very simple interface and a system more personalized to your business requirements. One can say that the entire approach is an objection to being forced to adopt solutions that have been already built; the CMS adapts to you. Better Security Since they are quite popular, open-source CMS platforms abound and are very popular targets for hackers. A custom CMS development process, on the contrary, reduces all attacks as it is not available in public. It us also very safe since it's integrated into a very well-protected, encrypted, and tightly controlled access security method. Scalability It evolves along with your business. Even a custom CMS is designed to add new features, integrate third-party tools, and expand functionality. Unlike generic CMS platforms, which may have restrictions on scalability, a custom-built system will ensure future-proofing and adaptability. Your custom CMS is also a top digital marketing tool that will drive your business forward. Performance Optimization Usually, a prebuilt CMS platform comes with features that aren't necessary for a certain website and thus contribute to slowing it down. A custom-made CMS overcomes that by integrating only the features required, thereby improving the speed, responsiveness, and efficiency of every website. Being faster improves user experience and might even positively influence SEO rankings. Cons or Better Known as Disadvantages: Everything has its own disadvantages. Maybe it takes a lot of time and money. Let’s find out its cons: Higher Initial Cost To build a CMS all the way from the ground up requires a development team and types of web hosting, plus security and continuous maintenance. Built solutions such as a platform that provides free or cheap plans are much different; a customCMS development process requires initial expenditure. But due to the advantages in the long run and its freedom, this is a justified expense. Maintenance Responsibility A custom CMS, quite contrary to other platforms like WordPress which has specialized community support, requires continuous maintenance on the part of the internal team. You will have to have technical teams to fix bugs and update security protocols and heaven only knows what else needs doing to keep it running well. If such resources to provide long-term maintenance are unavailable to you, it can be quite a hindrance. Longer Development Time Even with a streamlined development process, it typically takes a fair amount of time to create a proper CMS. Creating a custom CMS requires designing, coding, testing, and changing all before it can become fully functional, off-the-shelf. Of course, a well-planned project timeline would help in combating delays and possibly lift up the completion of your CMS. If these cons don’t scare you off, let’s dive into the custom CMS development process and how to make a CMS of your own in just a few steps. How to Build a CMS in 8 Steps 1. Define Your Objective Before you begin coding, it is advisable to be clear on what exactly your CMS is required to do. Identify the use of your CMS; is it just for blogging, for e-commerce, or for managing corporate websites? Listing down must-have features and defining the scope of your project will set the boundaries for realistic expectations. It will be helpful to know the ultimate destination so that you do not spend time on unnecessary functionalities. 2. Choose Your Tech Stack The right technology stack is all vital factors while building a fast and reliable CMS. The frontend can employ modern frameworks like React.js, Vue.js, or Angular to create an interactive user experience. On the backend, one might say that it's been handled by node.js or frameworks like Django, Laravel, or Ruby on rails for data processing and all that logic thing. For database storage and data manipulation: MySQL, PostgreSQL, or MongoDB can be added to the list. Choosing the right stack creates a smooth development path with less hustle in scalability. 3. Plan Your CMS Architecture A well-built CMS should work through a good structure. First of all, you need to have a User Dashboard where administrators can manage content without much hassle. Next, you will build a Database Structure to hold articles, media, and user data. The CMS has to have some Publishing System functional on which every other user can use to schedule or edit some content. Further, role-based access and data encryption as Security Features will maintain the CMS to shield the threats haunting it. 4. Develop the Core Functionalities The core functionalities of CMS define the usability of such a system. First, implement User Authentication so that a user can register, log in, and be allocated an appropriate access role or role-based access. Next, implement the Content Management Component so that users can add, edit, delete, and organize content. SEO tools including customizable meta tags, URL structures, and sitemap generation, are important for online visibility. Last but not least, Media Management allows users to upload and organize images, videos, and documents right into the CMS. 5. Create an Easy-to-Use Interface An easy-to-use interface is very important for a CMS to work. A clean, simple interface using something like Bootstrap or Tailwind CSS would be great. The dashboard should be easy to figure out, have labeled sections, and clearly speak out actions for users. A good UI minimizes the learning curve for the user and ensures that content management will be a breeze. Mobile responsiveness is equally important since many prefer being able to manage content while on the move. 6. Implement Security Measures For the CMS, security comes first. Have an SSL layer of encryption to protect data in transit and ensure that no unauthorized personnel can get into the system. Use Role-Based Access Control (RBAC) to ensure that only authorized personnel can modify sensitive data. Keep your security issues up to date to avoid the risk of them being compromised. If security is your main concern, you usually also protect user data and all audit logs that can be needed to trace each action within the CMS. 7. Test Everything Before the CMS workflow goes into effect, conduct thorough testing to identify any bugs or usability issues. Second, functional testing ensures the proper functioning of features included for the user. Vulnerability tests inform the administrator of the potential security threats that exist within the CMS. Additional tests could include those pertaining to the other devices and browsers to ensure everything will work without a hitch. A CMS that has undergone scrupulous testing causes minimized technical faults and a better user experience thereafter. 8. Deploy and Maintain Once testing has completed, the next step is to have the CMS installed on a reliable service like AWS, DigitalOcean, or Vercel as per the upload-and-put-to-production guideline. The scheme for maintenance must then be established, including periodic updates, performance checks, and bug fixes. Keeping your CMS well-maintained ensures long-term stability and allows for continuous improvements as your business grows. How Much Does It Cost to Build a CMS? The CMS building costs depend on multiple factors. If you’re coding it yourself, expenses might be as low as $500 for hosting and development tools. Hiring a small team of outsourcers can range between $5,000 – $15,000, depending on the complexity. For businesses seeking a professional development firm, costs start from $20,000 and can go beyond $100,000, depending on the required features. To balance quality and affordability, the Benefit of building CMS with Arpatech is that we offer cost-effective CMS development services tailored to different business needs. Learn how to set a budget for a website, and let’s start your first project. Final Thoughts Creating Your Own Content Management System (CMS) provides flexibility, security, and long-term benefits. By following the right steps, choosing the right technologies, Getting help from the right people or software developers, and investing in maintenance, the answer to your question about how to build a CMS has been answered! Now, you can effortlessly create a robust CMS tailored to your business needs. Frequently Asked Questions 1. How long does it take to build a CMS? Building a CMS from scratch can take anywhere between 2 to 6 months, depending on the complexity. Using modern frameworks and automation tools can speed up the process, reducing development time. 2. Can you make your own CMS? Yes, anyone with coding knowledge can develop a simple CMS. If you lack technical expertise, hiring a developer or using CMS development services is a practical alternative. 3. How much does it cost to build a CMS website? Costs vary from $500 (DIY) to $100,000+ (enterprise-level solutions). The final price depends on the project scope, required features, and development approach. It is not at all an easy task to build a mobile app these days, especially if someone is looking for one that would function perfectly on both Android and iOS. This is where the best cross-platform app frameworks come in handy-they allow the developers to create a code once and use it on multiple platforms, saving a lot of time and effort. But how does one select the best out of so many? So, let us help you take a deep dive into the best cross-platform app framework for mobile app development in 2025 and help you choose the best fit for your needs. What Is a Cross-Platform App Development Framework? Before we jump into the top picks, let’s break it down. Cross-Platform App Development Frameworks tool enables developers to write mobile applications that work on many operating systems from a single code base. They do not have to spend time and finances developing separate applications for iOS and Android; they just write once and deploy everywhere. This is very much because it cuts down on the cost of development, shortens the time to market for the product, and makes sure that the user experience is essentially the same across devices. What Are The Best Frameworks For Developing Cross-Platform Mobile Apps? Now that you know the basics, let’s look at some of the popular cross-platform app development frameworks in 2025. Flutter: The Most Loved Choice In the year 2025, the cross-platform mobile application development framework developed by Google, Flutter, still remains supreme. To date, developers have graded quite a few points in the favor of this framework based on lightning-fast performance and beautiful user interface components; unsurprisingly, it is now widely known for being blessed with vast community support. Another important feature of this framework is that it uses Dart, which is tailored for rapid application development. This leads to applications with near-native performance, assuring smooth running on both iOS and Android. The framework, besides, supports hot reload, which enables developers to see changes instantly without restarting the application again. Also, Flutter has the greatest power in animations and manipulation of complex UI designs. Thus, it is ideal for applications requiring a great deal of visual appeal. That said, Flutter comes with its few limitations; the app size is usually way larger than the native apps, thus can become a problem to most storage-minded users. Adding to that, Dart isn't as wide-reaching as JavaScript; hence transitioning for some developers into Flutter might prove somewhat complicated. Flutter is most suitable for startup and medium-sized enterprises, applications that are UI/UX rich, and companies that seek high performance. React Native: The Developer’s Favorite React Native, Backed by Meta (formerly Facebook), is still an enormous presence in 2025. The framework allows cross-platform mobile app development especially with JavaScript and React, enabling them to create high-performant mobile applications. The strength of React Native lies in the use of JavaScript, which is among the most widely known programming languages. This allows easy learning for the developers and easy working with it. A huge community with strong third-party plugin support fosters faster and more efficient development as well. Plus, React Native delivers a near-native experience with reusable components, simplifying app development. However, React Native does indeed have some drawbacks. Heavy animations may cause some performance issues, which, for graphically intensive applications, is not going to be very suitable. Also, other advanced features might require native code, which means developers need to brush up on Swift or Kotlin now and then. React Native is a good option for companies that already operate using JavaScript and require short development cycles. Xamarin: Microsoft’s Reliable Solution Xamarin is a Microsoft controlled open-source framework that allows developers to write applications in C# and deploy on different platforms. The interoperability of Microsoft's tools with Xamarin is an added benefit, especially for companies that may already have embraced the Microsoft ecosystem. Key components like high performance and direct access to native APIs constitute these cross-functional applications. It also provides solid support for enterprise applications, which works wonderfully for large-scale business applications. Xamarin's downside is that its licensing could be mega-expensive for small companies or new startups. Its UI design is comparatively weaker than the Flutter and React UI, not a great benefit for developers deeply concerned with aesthetics. In essence, Xamarin is most advantageous for enterprises and developers who are inclined toward the Microsoft ecosystem. Unity: Perfect for Game Development When your application relates to gaming or programs related to the interactive 3D element, it is undoubtedly Unity all the way. Multi-platform, very visually stunning. The primary advantage of Unity is that it's a very powerful graphics engine, which means you can create a wonderful-looking game. It also really has great support regarding AR applications and VR applications, so if you want to create an immersive experience, then Unity is your best bet. Also, it has a large developer community; hence, many resources and support are available. There again, Unity is heavier than all of these regular application frameworks, and hence may not suit very simple applications. It is overkill for standard mobile applications that do not come with high-end graphics. Unity is the best engine for game development AIaaS, and AR/VR applications. Cross-Platform Mobile App Development Frameworks – A Quick Comparison In order to know what’s best for your business, let’s compare the platforms and deduce our theories: Flutter vs. React Native Flutter excels in performance and UI capabilities whereby any modern app being created must be eye-catching. React Native, on the contrary, is the favorite for the JavaScript developer with its power of flexibility and faster development cycles. If UI is all that matters and speed is also a concern, pick Flutter. If wider developer support and easy integration with existing web technologies are what you require, then React Native would be your right choice. Xamarin vs. Flutter In comparison, Xamarin is the natural choice when one is highly aligned with Microsoft’s ecosystem. That is, startups and UI-focused apps would prefer Flutter in this particular race. Fully integrated into the .NET platform, whereas Flutter provides highly animated and modern UI. Should your team work well in C#, Xamarin would be a great choice. For a fresh, dynamic UI, consider Flutter. React Native vs. Xamarin React Native is primarily used for web-based companies preferring to implement JavaScript. Xamarin, projected on C#, comes much handy in the hands of developers working within Microsoft's ecosystem. In React Native, we have more community-driven plugins, while Xamarin gives far better access to the native API capabilities. Opt for React Native for quicker turnovers and Xamarin for enterprise solutions. Unity vs. Other Frameworks Contrary to Flutter, React Native, and Xamarin, Unity is focused on the implementation of games and immersive applications. Using Unity is best for highly demanding graphics with a lot of dust in the capabilities of 3D-based modeling and AR/VR support. However, the other three options are most suited for typical mobile applications. How to Choose the Right Cross-Platform Mobile App Development Framework? Choosing the right framework depends on your app’s requirements, your team’s expertise, and your budget. 1. Project Complexity and Performance Needs If you need high performance and a visually stunning UI, Flutter is a great option. For JavaScript developers looking for a fast development cycle, React Native is ideal. If you’re working on a game or AR/VR application, Unity is the best choice. 2. Developer Expertise and Language Preference If your team is comfortable with JavaScript, React Native makes integration easy. For teams using C#, Xamarin is the best choice due to its Microsoft ecosystem support. Flutter requires Dart, which may take some time to learn but offers excellent UI capabilities. 3. Cost and Maintenance Open-source frameworks like Flutter and React Native can reduce development costs. Xamarin may require additional licensing costs, making it better suited for enterprises. Unity is ideal for game development but may have higher maintenance costs for non-game applications. 4. Community Support and Libraries React Native and Flutter have vast communities and numerous third-party plugins. Xamarin, while reliable, has a smaller community and fewer third-party resources. Final Thoughts Flutter is one of the best choices if you want faster performance with a stylish UI. React Native is the best option if you are familiar with JavaScript and want a high-performance framework. Xamarin is a popular solution for companies who have Microsoft completely in their infrastructure. Lastly, Unity would be a better option if your applications are game-centric. Based on the requirements of your project and merits of each of the frameworks, you would have found The Popular cross-platform app development frameworks for your mobile application in 2025. However, if you're still confused, you should talk to mobile app development experts at Arpatech and gain valuable insights. Frequently Asked Questions What is the best platform to build a mobile app? The best platform depends on your needs. If you want a cross-platform approach, like Fintech App Development, Flutter and React Native are top choices. If you’re developing a game, Unity is the best option. What are the two main platforms for mobile apps? The two principal mobile app platforms: Android by Google and iOS by Apple. What is the best cross-platform mobile development in 2025? The year 2025 will again place Flutter and React Native at the forefront of the best cross-platform mobile app development frameworks because of their flexibility, performance, and community support. Software development trends are evolving at lightning speed and at the same time, emerging with new or upcoming user-expected technologies. Every time, trends appear on the stage and shake things up again, much to the cause of businesses and software devs to keep them on their toes. 11 Software Development Trends Emerging in 2025: Efficiency, Safety, and User Experience If you want to know what all the rage is about in software development trends 2025, let us explain it simply and user-friendly. 1. Artificial Intelligence (AI) in Software Development Artificial Intelligence is now more than just an interesting catchphrase; it is a real game-changer in the software industry. AI-powered tools are making coding faster, testing more efficient, and making software brighter. Automating repetitive tasks lets developers spend more time on cool stuff, keeping their applications safe with AI-driven threat detection. Some of the most current trends in software development of AI are: Generative AI AIaaS (AI as a Service) Natural Language Processing (NLP) Automated Machine Learning Ethical AI Benefits: Speeds up software development and testing Improves cybersecurity by detecting threats in real-time Enhances user experience with personalized software interactions Use Case: Companies like Microsoft and Google use AI-powered code assistants (like GitHub Copilot) to help developers write better code with fewer bugs. 2. Low-Code and No-Code Development Not a coding expert? No problem! Low-code and no-code platforms allow businesses to create software with minimal coding knowledge. We know that software development is a long and tiring process with code on all ends. But with low code, you can develop ERP software for enterprises with ease and have no hassle in the entire process. Benefits: Speeds up development time Reduces costs by minimizing developer workload Empowers non-tech teams to build apps Use Case: Small businesses use tools like Bubble and OutSystems to create apps without hiring expensive developers. 3. Cloud-Native Development Cloud is king! More and more software development companies are shifting to cloud-native applications that are scalable, flexible, and cost-effective. Benefits: Faster software updates and deployment Cost savings on IT infrastructure Better performance and security Use Case: Netflix runs its entire platform on AWS cloud services to handle massive user demand efficiently. 4. Cybersecurity-First Approach With data breaches becoming common, security can’t be an afterthought. In 2025, cybersecurity is a priority in software development. Benefits: Protects sensitive data Reduces the risk of cyberattacks Builds user trust Use Case: Banks use advanced encryption and biometric authentication to protect customer transactions from cyber threats. 5. DevSecOps: Security + DevOps Think of DevSecOps as DevOps with built-in security! It ensures security is integrated into the development process rather than added later. Benefits: Reduces security vulnerabilities Speeds up secure software deployment Improves collaboration between development and security teams Use Case: Companies like IBM use DevSecOps to integrate security checks into their software development pipeline. 6. Progressive Web Apps (PWAs) PWAs combine the best of websites and mobile apps, offering a seamless experience without needing app store downloads. So, with powerful web app development services, get the best of both worlds! Benefits: Works offline Loads faster than traditional websites Reduces development costs Use Case: Twitter’s PWA, Twitter Lite, uses less data and loads faster, improving user experience. 7. Edge Computing Edge computing brings data processing closer to the source (like smart devices), reducing delays and improving performance. Benefits: Faster response times Reduces bandwidth usage Improves IoT device performance Use Case: Smart home devices process commands locally instead of relying on cloud servers, making them faster and more reliable. 8. Blockchain Beyond Cryptocurrency Blockchain is no longer just about Bitcoin! It’s being used in supply chains, healthcare, and finance to improve transparency and security. Benefits: Enhances data integrity and security Reduces fraud and tampering Improves transaction speed Use Case: Healthcare providers use blockchain to secure patient records and ensure accurate data sharing. 9. Internet of Things (IoT) Expansion From smart homes to connected cars, IoT is growing rapidly, making everyday life more convenient and efficient. Benefits: Enhances automation and control Improves data collection and analysis Reduces operational costs in industries Use Case: Smart cities use IoT to manage traffic, reduce pollution, and improve public transportation. 10. Augmented Reality (AR) and Virtual Reality (VR) in Software AR and VR aren’t just for gaming—they’re transforming industries like healthcare, real estate, and education. Benefits: Enhances user engagement Provides immersive learning experiences Improves remote collaboration Use Case: Doctors use VR simulations to practice complex surgeries without real-world risks. 11. Software Development Outsourcing Trends Since software development outsourcing is gaining popularity amongst companies, it is doing so mainly as a cost-saving method of acquiring offshore talents. Outsourcing allows companies to focus on their competencies while delegating the IT, agile software development and enterprise software development services to a specialized team of talented developers! Reactive models and the services of organization application development fit right into this concept. Benefits: Reduces operational expenses Allows businesses to scale quickly Provides access to expert developers worldwide Use Case: Startups outsource mobile app development to firms in India and Eastern Europe to save money and speed up launch times. Final Thoughts Software development trends 2025 revolve around speed, security, and smarter solutions. Be it AI coding, cloud computing, or blockchain security speed, staying ahead of these trends could ensure business success. With the ever-changing improved technology, every other day brings new trends to be included in the software development life cycle, no matter how advanced and innovative we are. We, at Arpatech, will stick to these industry norms and will be well aware that changing with these latest software development trends will be a critical success factor! Frequently Asked Questions 1. What are the latest trends in software development? The latest technology trends in software development include AI-powered coding, low-code platforms, cloud-native applications, cybersecurity-first approaches, DevSecOps, and the rise of progressive web apps. 2. What are the 3 healthcare software development trends? AI-driven diagnostics and personalized treatment plans Blockchain for securing patient records Telemedicine and remote patient monitoring with IoT 3. What type of software development is most in demand? The hot skills of software development in 2025 include, but are not limited to, the following application areas of AI and machine learning applications; including cybersecurity solutions; cloud-based software; and customized software development trends to make sure that all features are aligned in a way that even Python software development services can fulfill business requirements or specifications. Cloud application development is changing the way businesses build and deliver software. Because of the emergence of flexible and scalable cloud computing platforms, businesses can now, for the first time, develop powerful apps that are more affordable, accessible, and efficient. Going into 2025, demand for cloud-based applications is likely to go even higher. But before we go into any trend, let us break it down: What is cloud application development, and why should your business be interested? What Is Cloud Application Development? Cloud application development refers to developing applications that run on the internet, on the cloud instead of on a single device or server. Such applications run on cloud platforms such as AWS, Microsoft Azure, or Google Cloud, as opposed to implementing the traditional on-premises server environments. So, what is the cloud? Well, it means servers that can be located anywhere, which store and organize data and information and make them available through the internet. The beauty of cloud applications is that any person can enjoy them; they can simply access the applications from wherever they want and on whichever device they want- whether phone, laptop, or tablet. What Is a Cloud-Based Application? A cloud-based application is software that’s stored and runs in the cloud. Think of tools like Google Docs or Zoom. You don’t install them on your device—they live online and update automatically. These applications rely on cloud computing to manage everything from storage to performance, offering flexibility, faster access, and smoother updates. Key Benefits of a Cloud App You might be thinking, what are the benefits of using cloud-based applications that so many businesses are shifting toward developing applications for the cloud? So, here’s your answer: 1. Scalability Need to handle a sudden spike in traffic? No problem. Cloud apps scale up or down easily based on demand—perfect for growing businesses or seasonal workloads. 2. Cost-Effectiveness One of the biggest benefits of a cloud-based app for business is lower costs. You only pay for the resources you use, avoiding expensive hardware and maintenance. 3. Flexibility Work from anywhere, anytime. Cloud apps allow your team and customers to access services on the go, supporting remote work and global collaboration. 4. Strong Security Leading cloud platforms provide built-in security measures like data encryption, backups, and multi-layered access controls to protect your data. How Does a Cloud App Work? Wondering how a cloud app works? Here's a simple overview: Idea & Planning – Define what the app needs to do and how it should help users. Design – Build a user-friendly interface and choose the right cloud services and database. Development – Write the code to run on the cloud architecture. After that, conduct cloud infrastructure management. Testing – Ensure it works across platforms and devices. Deployment – Launch the app on the cloud for users to access. Maintenance – Keep the app running smoothly with updates and support. Features Every Cloud App Development Should Have A great cloud app isn’t just about working online. It should also include: Seamless cross-device access Data security and backup options Real-time syncing Automatic updates Scalable performance infrastructure These features every cloud app development should have ensure that your application delivers value consistently. The Role of Cloud Application Development Services Developing a cloud app isn't always easy. That’s where cloud application development services come in. The role of cloud managed services is to help businesses plan, design, develop, and maintain their cloud-based software. Here’s how they help: Choosing the right cloud platform (like AWS or Google Cloud) They help you pick the best cloud service that fits your business needs, budget, and goals; whether it’s AWS, Google Cloud, or another provider. It’s all about choosing the right tools from the start. Designing scalable app architecture for long-term growth They build your app in a way that it can handle more users or features in the future without breaking. Think of it like building a house with space to grow. Implementing CI/CD pipelines for smooth updates and releases They set up systems that let developers update the app quickly and safely, so new features and fixes roll out without any downtime or drama. Providing security and compliance support These services make sure your app is safe from hackers and follows industry rules (like GDPR or HIPAA), giving you peace of mind. At Arpatech, our expert developers specialize in developing applications for the cloud, ensuring your business gets the full benefit of cloud computing—without the hassle. Examples of Cloud Software Some popular cloud application examples include: Google Workspace (Docs, Sheets, Gmail) Dropbox Slack Microsoft 365 Salesforce These apps are all built in the cloud and serve millions globally. Challenges in Cloud App Development While cloud apps offer many advantages, there are also a few challenges to keep in mind: Choosing the right platform and tools Ensuring data privacy and compliance Managing multi-cloud public cloud vs private cloud vs hybrid cloud environments Budgeting for long-term resource usage Still, with the right partner and planning, these challenges are manageable. The Cost of Cloud Application Development The cost of cloud application development is primarily dependent on several factors such as the complexity of the application, choice of platform, and features required. However, the cloud pay-as-you-go model gives you the option of cloud cost optimization per month. It is thereby become easy to control the cost over the time. You save money by not having to purchase hardware, maintenance, and IT staff for full scalability and speed. depends on factors like app complexity, platform choice, and features required. However, the cloud’s pay-as-you-go model gives you the optionand makes it easier to control costs over time. You save money on hardware, maintenance, and IT staff, all while gaining scalability and speed. The Future of Cloud Apps in 2025 and Beyond Looking ahead, cloud application development will continue to evolve with technologies like AI, machine learning, and predictive analytics. Businesses will rely more on multi-cloud and hybrid-cloud strategies to get the best performance, security, and cost savings. With smarter tools for automation, cloud cryptography, development, and deployment, cloud apps will become even more efficient, powerful, and essential for businesses of all sizes. You can also shift successfully with the top cloud consulting companies working with you. Contact us and seek the help of expert cloud consultants at Arpatech to ensure that your cloud architecture seamlessly fits into your business plan. Frequently Asked Questions What is cloud development? Cloud development refers to creating software that runs on cloud infrastructure rather than local servers. It enables scalability, easier updates, and access from anywhere. What is the difference between cloud software and web software? Cloud software runs on remote servers and can be accessed from anywhere, while web software runs through a web browser but might not use full cloud features. How do developers conduct website migration to cloud? Developers move websites to the cloud by copying files, databases, and settings to a cloud server, then testing everything to make sure it works smoothly. With growth comes increased demand for data, and an avalanche of it, for any growing business. From customer records and employee files to sales reports and inventory logs, the amount of data to be generated by a growing business can be staggering. With the wrong systems, this data can become an unmanageable mess instead of an asset. This is where data management solutions for SMEs (small and medium enterprises) come in. They provide a way to effectively store, organize, protect, and use your data so that you are always prepared to take the next step on your road to growth. Now let us investigate how your growing company will be able to implement efficient, scalable, and affordable data management systems for its benefit, and which tools are worth considering. What are Data Management Solutions for SMEs? While considering the Data Management solutions, they are more than just tools and software applications. Management solutions, in this context, mean a complete strategy or approach that enables organizations to handle their data. So, when discussing data management solutions, we mean not only tools and software but also methodologies, processes, and best practices used to solve all kinds of data challenges. Data management solutions further include the following: Identifying and deploying suitable software solutions Developing clear data governance frameworks Setting and enforcing data quality benchmarks Ensuring data management strategies support overall business goals Why Data Management Matters as You Grow Data is more than just numbers and files, it’s insights, opportunities, and even revenue waiting to be unlocked. But without proper handling, it can lead to inefficiencies, security risks, and missed chances. Top Benefits of Data Management: 1. Better Business Decisions Through Clean, Accessible Data When everything is set up, and access to the data is easy, you can do more than just guess; you can now plan and strategize on some sound solid ground. Clean data cuts through the noise and allows you to see clearly what is working, what isn’t, and the next step to take. Data management enables business intelligence for small companies, it's like having a crystal ball, but better, because it's backed by real numbers. 2. Increased Productivity and Collaboration No more getting lost in the depths of endless folders or making three different departments ask for the same information. An effective data management system puts the relevant information at your fingertips, just when it's needed by teams, and it frees them from silos, costly workflow inefficiencies, and gives everyone a single source of truth, enabling them to become more efficient and work better. 3. Stronger Customer Relationships with Detailed Data Tracking Know your customers; good data management gives you just that. With systematic records about your customers, you can personalize their communication, anticipate their requirements, and ultimately provide better service. In short, you make customers feel once again about their very existence and this really keeps them around. 4. Enhanced Data Security and Compliance As cyber threats and compliance regulations increase, data security becomes the need of the hour. A solid data management system protects the sensitive data in your business through compliance with industry standards. This means you will be at peace and your clients will trust you. 5. Smooth Scalability as Operations Expand More data accumulates as your business grows. It can be quite messy without a proper plan. Good data management lays the ground for scalability. Whether you are adding new products, are going to new markets, or onboarding more team members, your systems can grow along with you, rather than against you. Smart Data Management Solutions for Growing Enterprises Let’s break down some practical strategies and tools that can help growing businesses manage their data efficiently: Adopt Scalable Data Management Systems We have already established that data grows with your business. . A scalable system adapts to your needs, whether you're augmenting users, accommodating more clients, or increasing the amount of storage data. Use Case: A growing e-commerce brand might start with a basic CRM but later switch to Salesforce or Zoho CRM to handle advanced customer segmentation and marketing automation. Organize Everything with Data Organization Tools for SMBs Messy data means missed opportunities. Tools like Notion, Airtable, or Asana help you categorize and sort your business data or big data in customizable, user-friendly ways. Use Case: A digital agency might use Airtable to keep track of client projects, timelines, and invoices all in one place. Choose the Right Cloud Storage for Small Businesses Cloud storage gives you flexibility and freedom. You can access files anytime, collaborate with teams remotely, and avoid costly hardware upgrades. Use Case: A small design firm uses Google Drive to store client files and share designs with team members in real-time, from any location. Invest in Enterprise Data Solutions That Match Your Size People believe that ERP software for enterprises only strengthens large corporations, but that’s not the case. Many platforms offer modular options that grow with your business—providing analytics, reporting, and integrations. Use Case: A logistics company adopts Microsoft Azure to monitor deliveries, warehouse data, and fleet activity with custom dashboards. Use Effective Database Management Tools Databases like MySQL, MongoDB, or PostgreSQL help structure and retrieve data fast and efficiently. These tools are great for applications and websites that need consistent performance and reliability. Use Case: A SaaS startup stores user data and application settings in PostgreSQL to provide a seamless, customized experience to every client. Pick the Best Data Management Tools for Growing Businesses Tools like Zoho One, Monday.com, or Microsoft Power BI can centralize your data for easy tracking, reporting, and automation—making daily operations smoother. Use Case: A marketing agency uses Power BI to visualize campaign data, client performance, and ROI metrics in one dashboard. Know How to Secure Business Data Effectively Data security is not just an IT issue, it’s a business priority. Encryption, firewalls, multi-factor authentication, and regular access reviews protect you from breaches and keep your reputation intact with secure data management. Use Case: A law firm uses encrypted document sharing and role-based access control to safeguard sensitive case files. Look for Affordable Cloud Storage for Small Businesses Budget-friendly doesn’t mean basic. Providers like Dropbox Business, iDrive, or Backblaze offer cost-effective plans with robust storage and backup features. Use Case: A local photography studio uses Backblaze to automatically back up high-res client files without breaking the bank. Use Real-Time Data Tracking Solutions for SMBs Need decisions on the fly? Real-time tracking tools help you monitor key metrics like sales, traffic, or user activity without delays, so you can act fast. Use Case: An online store uses Google Analytics and Shopify’s live dashboard to tweak promotions in real time during flash sales. Create a Reliable Plan for Data Backup and Recovery Accidents happen, files get deleted, and systems crash. That’s why automatic backups and a clear recovery process are essential for any business. So, do your business a favor and set up a well-grounded plan of data backup and recovery for small enterprises. Use Case: A healthcare provider backs up patient data nightly and stores a second copy offsite, ensuring compliance and peace of mind. Leverage IT Solutions for Managing Business Data Sometimes, you need expert help. Hiring an IT partner or using managed services ensures your data systems stay optimized and secure while you focus on running the business. Use Case: A restaurant chain outsources IT support to handle POS data, inventory management, and customer loyalty programs across all branches. Understand How to Scale Data Systems for Growing Companies Scaling isn’t just about more space, it’s about smarter infrastructure. Cloud-based architecture, APIs, and automation help you build systems that evolve without constant overhauls. Use Case: A fitness app scales its data infrastructure using AWS services to handle thousands of new user sign-ups after a viral campaign. Final Thoughts The right data management solutions don’t just solve problems, they open doors. Whether you’re a solo founder, a scaling startup, or a growing enterprise, investing in the right tools today can save you time, money, and major headaches tomorrow. So, let Arpatech be your partner in growth, and let’s make the future possible. And P.S. You don’t need to do everything at once. Start small, grow smart, and keep your data strategy aligned with your business goals. Frequently Asked Questions What are the 5 C's of data management? The 5 C's of data management are: Consistency Completeness Cleanliness Conformity Connectivity They help ensure your data is accurate, organized, and easy to use. What are enterprise data solutions? Enterprise data solutions are tools and systems that help big organizations manage, store, and analyze large amounts of data safely and efficiently. What are the three types of data in an enterprise system? The three main types of data are: Master Data (like customer info) Transactional Data (like sales records) Analytical Data (used for reports and decision-making) Like all industries in this world, the healthcare industry in the UAE is in the process of rapid digital transformation. Popularized by technologies such as electronic health records (EHRs), connected medical devices, and cloud-based systems, most medical clinics are now increasingly introducing high-level information technology into their organizations. Such innovations improve efficiencies and patient care; however, they introduce new and very serious cybersecurity risks. Now, all size medical clinics are very major players in handling a huge volume of sensitive health data. Patient history, insurance details, diagnostic images, and billing information are only a few of the vast amounts of information that have made the health sector a prime target for cybercriminals. In this picture, then, cybersecurity solutions for healthcare should almost be considered mandatory, not optional. Why is the Healthcare Industry a Primary Target? Cyber attacks have evolved, and healthcare organizations have become important targets to cybercriminals as much-sensitive data is processed in these organizations. Patient records contain information such as names, national identification numbers, medical history, and financial data, which can make individuals victims of crimes that arise once this information is misused or sold in black markets. Cybercriminals often target healthcare institutions because: Many clinics and hospitals still operate with outdated systems. Security practices may be lacking or inconsistent. Medical devices connected to networks often have limited protection. Staff may be unaware of common cybersecurity threats like phishing. These risks are further compounded by the rapid adoption of digital tools and success with big data platforms in the UAE, where the healthcare sector is growing dangerously fast. This makes the need for comprehensive cybersecurity solutions for the healthcare industry, all the more urgent. Cybersecurity Issues and Solutions for Big Data Systems in Healthcare Big data is radically transforming healthcare in UAE in its own way: enabling clinics to enhance diagnosis, track patient outcomes, and personalize treatment. However, strong cybersecurity measures are the sentinels for defending this big data migration, which would otherwise be exposed and misused. Issues: These are some issues that medical clinics face on a regular: Unsecured Data Transmission Proper protective measures are completely absent when data travels between systems, so a hacker can invade and compromise the transfers. Sensitive patient information is exposed during these transfers. Inadequate User Access Control When every individual in the healthcare organization is granted full access, there is a high risk of accidental and deliberate misuse of data and the need to restrict access only to the specific needful. Weak Authentication Measures Simple password protection cannot do the job anymore. Systems having weak resident login protection can be easily compromised, and patient records are endangered. Lack of Real-Time Monitoring Threats can go unnoticed without continuous monitoring, and damage could have already been done. Real-time monitoring helps nip unlawful activity in the bud. Solutions: To tackle these risks and issues, healthcare cybersecurity providers should focus on the following strategies to improve cyberattack threats and their malware detection: End-to-End Encryption Encrypting data from the moment it’s generated till it reaches its end client ensures that the data is unreadable even if it happens to be intercepted en route. Role-Based Access Control (RBAC) RBAC limits who can view or edit data according to their job function, thereby minimizing the chance of unauthorized access. Advanced Threat Detection Systems These AI and machine learning systems would identify any abnormal behavior or attack prior to causing any harm. Frequent Audits and Compliance Checks Regular reviews of systems and practices help keep security up to date and ensure compliance with health data regulations. Cybersecurity Solutions for Medical Clinics In the UAE, even small to mid-sized medical clinics must guard against growing digital threats. Thankfully, there are affordable and effective solutions tailored for healthcare settings. Data Encryption Encrypting patient data, both in storage and while being shared, adds a layer of protection that secures data management against theft and tampering. Firewall and Antivirus Software These tools act like digital gatekeepers, blocking viruses and preventing unauthorized users from getting into clinic systems. Two-factor authentication (2FA) 2FA makes logging in safer by requiring a second form of verification, like a code sent to your phone, along with your password. Secure Wi-Fi Networks Clinics should use protected Wi-Fi with limited access points. A segmented network can keep medical devices and admin systems separate for added security. Employee Training Staff should be trained to recognize phishing attempts and other scams. Awareness is key to preventing human errors that lead to breaches. Regular Backups Frequent backups ensure that data can be quickly restored in case of a ransomware attack or accidental loss, helping clinics get back on track. Cybersecurity Solutions for Medical Devices With more smart devices being used in clinics, like ECG machines, insulin pumps, and patient monitors, cybersecurity is required to protect these tools as well from malware and data breaches. Routine Firmware and Software Updates Keeping device software updated closes security loopholes and protects against known vulnerabilities. Strong Authentication Protocols Medical devices should require secure logins to prevent unauthorized use, especially when connected to networks. Network Segmentation Separating medical devices from other parts of the clinic’s network helps isolate potential breaches and limits access to critical systems. Monitoring for Abnormal Behavior Monitoring device activity prevents unauthorized access or weird patterns of behavior from being caught early on and quashing them fast before damages occur. Well, hospitals can secure patient health and the continued performance of their daily services by securing their medical devices. How to Overcome IT Threats Through Cybersecurity in Medical Clinics One must take a proactive and layered approach to combating cybersecurity threats. Medical clinics should also focus on assessing their vulnerabilities and developing tailored solutions for both technical and human factors. Steps to improve healthcare IT security include: Conducting regular risk assessments Implementing an incident response plan Using secure cloud services that comply with local regulations Partnering with cybersecurity firms that specialize in the healthcare sector UAE is employing robust regulatory frameworks as time goes on and as cyber threats increase. They are serious about protecting patient data at all costs. Medical clinics that follow all of these restrictions and regulations not only avoid penalties but also garner their patients’ trust and build a strong reputation for themselves. Opportunities for Medical Clinics in the UAE Cybersecurity is more than just a defensive strategy, it is also a growth enabler. By investing in healthcare cybersecurity solutions, medical clinics in the UAE can: Offer secure telehealth and remote consultation services Expand digital record-keeping without compromising privacy Gain a competitive advantage in a technology-driven market Build trust with patients who value data protection With the UAE’s national push toward smart healthcare, clinics that prioritize security are well-positioned to grow, innovate, and collaborate with both government and private stakeholders. Final Thoughts Cybersecurity is no longer a back-office concern, it is front and center to the success and integrity of modern medical clinics. In the UAE’s rapidly evolving healthcare landscape, adopting robust cybersecurity solutions for healthcare is essential for safeguarding patient trust, ensuring compliance, and unlocking future opportunities. Medical clinics that prioritize cybersecurity today are building a smarter, safer, and more resilient healthcare system for tomorrow. Cybersecurity is no longer some back-end support, it has become front and center to the core success and integrity of modern medical clinics. In the rapidly evolving healthcare industry in UAE, putting robust cybersecurity solutions for healthcare in place to enable the safeguarding of patient trust, compliance, and unlocking opportunities. If you are struggling with small data breaches here and there, or are thinking of opening a medical clinic, our recommendation would be to contact a qualified cybersecurity company, like Arpatech, to stop any malware intrusion or data breaches in the future. This way, you can succeed in healthcare and gain your patients' trust with no hassle! Medical clinics that focus on cybersecurity today are indeed building a smarter, safer, and more resilient healthcare system for tomorrow. Frequently Asked Questions What is cybersecurity in the medical industry? Cybersecurity in the medical industry refers to protecting healthcare data, systems, and devices from cyber threats. It involves implementing technologies and policies that secure patient records, clinical systems, and connected devices. What are the biggest cyber threats in healthcare? The major threats include: Ransomware attacks Phishing scams Insider threats Data breaches Hacking of medical devices How to avoid data breaches in healthcare? Here are some solutions to use if you want to avoid data breaches in healthcare: Encrypt all sensitive data Train staff on cybersecurity awareness Use secure networks and access controls Implement two-factor authentication Regularly back up data and update systems Implement secure cybersecurity patch management for instant recovery What are the 3 types of cybersecurity threats in healthcare? Malware and ransomware attacks Phishing and social engineering Internal threats from staff or contractors Which hospital was hacked? A widely known example is the WannaCry ransomware attack in 2017, which disrupted the UK's National Health Service (NHS), affecting hospitals, clinics, and emergency services. It highlighted the global importance of securing healthcare systems. For healthcare professionals in the U.S., HIPAA dictates what can be used, and they essentially should be taking one priority above all else: compliance with the rules. Under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act HIPAA, the standard has become that sensitive patient information will be held as proprietary as more and more providers become cloud-centric and reliant on technology-based solutions for documentation and communication, and thus, ensuring HIPAA-compliant cloud storage is paramount. Today's focus will be on why specific cloud storage is HIPAA compliant, the importance of it in the healthcare field, and how exactly one should choose the best HIPAA-compliant cloud storage solutions for their practice. Whether big or small, every system has to know and implement the cloud format for storing data that ought to be HIPAA compliant in its operations to keep patients' trust safe and satisfy all legal requirements. Why Healthcare Professionals Need HIPAA Compliant Cloud Storage It is essential in modern healthcare to have fast yet safe and dependable patient information access. Electronic health records (EHRs) and everything they hold lab results, imaging files, etc. The data run high, and so do the responsibilities surrounding its safety. Cloud storage HIPAA-compliant solutions allow healthcare professionals to: Access patient records remotely and securely Patients' histories, medications, and notes can be accessed anytime, anywhere by clinicians through HIPAA-compliant cloud-based storage, allowing mobile devices and flexible, responsive care. Enable the other providers or specialists to share the information. Easier data-sharing between departments or practices may lessen miscommunication and delays in treatment plans, as well as allow greater coordination of care across the establishment. Ensure emergency data backup and recovery in case of emergencies There are facilities in-built for disaster recovery in the HIPAA-compliant cloud storage software protecting against all forms of hardware failure, cyberattacks, or natural disasters. Maintain patient care in a HIPAA-compliant cloud environment By migrating to the cloud architecture and using compliant storage, providers can ensure that patients receive timely, well-informed care while keeping sensitive data protected from breaches. However, not all cloud storage is created equal. So, is cloud storage HIPAA-compliant by default? Not necessarily. What Makes Cloud Storage HIPAA Compliant? To be considered HIPAA-compliant cloud storage, the role of cloud-managed services is to implement several technical, physical, and administrative safeguards. These include: Data Encryption Both at rest and in transit, encryption and cloud cryptography ensure that even if data is intercepted or accessed without authorization, it remains unreadable to malicious actors. Access Controls This means role-based access and multi-factor authentication. This way only authorized individuals would have access to patient data, and access must be limited based on job roles to minimize risk. Audit Controls Logging and monitoring user activity enables you to have audit logs that help you track who accessed what data and when it was accessed. This helps support transparency and detect suspicious activity. Automatic Logoff This feature enables authorities to prevent unauthorized access. Inactivity triggers an automatic logoff, protecting against situations where a user forgets to sign out from a shared or public device. So, whether you use a private or hybrid cloud, your user data is safe at all ends. Business Associate Agreement (BAA) The provider must sign a BAA outlining their responsibilities. A BAA is a legal document that ensures the cloud provider is contractually bound to safeguard PHI (Protected Health Information). Without these features, cloud storage is not considered HIPAA compliant. Benefits of HIPAA-Compliant Cloud-Based Storage Choosing HIPAA-compliant cloud storage software offers many advantages: Scalability If you have started small in a clinic, easily grow with your practice. Whether you're a solo practitioner or expanding to multiple clinics, HIPAA-compliant cloud storage solutions can adapt to your data needs without major infrastructure changes. Cost-effective Pay for what you need, when you need it. Instead of investing in expensive on-site servers, cloud Cost-optimization of HIPAA-Compliant Cloud-Based Storage enables you to only pay for the cloud resources you use, which helps manage budgets better. Accessibility Access records securely from any device or location. Clinicians can review files from home, during emergencies, or on the go, improving continuity of care and patient outcomes. Security Take advantage of Advanced encryption and access protocols to keep data safe. Cloud based storage HIPAA compliant systems employ strong security standards to reduce the risk of unauthorized access or data leaks. Disaster Recovery Backups ensure that data isn’t lost in emergencies. HIPAA compliant cloud storage solutions regularly back up data and have plans in place for quick recovery, so healthcare services aren't disrupted during crises. This not only improves operational efficiency but also strengthens patient care in a HIPAA-compliant cloud by making vital information available when and where it's needed most. What Cloud Storage is HIPAA-Compliant? If you're wondering what cloud storage is HIPAA-compliant, here's a list of some of the best HIPAA-compliant that effectively work with cloud infrastructure management in the USA: 1. Google Cloud Platform (GCP) Offers a signed BAA Strong encryption and access controls 2. Amazon Web Services (AWS) HIPAA eligible services Highly customizable security features 3. Microsoft Azure Enterprise-grade security Comprehensive compliance tools 4. Dropbox Business (with BAA) HIPAA compliant with the right plan Easy-to-use interface 5. Box for Healthcare Customized to medical data needs Secure collaboration features HIPAA Compliant Cloud Storage for Small Enterprises Small healthcare practices often assume HIPAA compliance is too expensive or complicated. But there are several HIPAA-compliant cloud storage for small business options available that are both affordable and user-friendly. HIPAA-compliant cloud storage for small enterprises includes: Carbonite Safe Pro iDrive for Business Sync.com for Teams These services allow small clinics and individual practitioners to stay compliant without breaking the bank. How to Choose the Best HIPAA-Compliant Cloud Storage Here are a few key questions to ask before making your choice: Do they offer a BAA (Business Associate Agreement)? Is data encrypted in transit and at rest? What access controls are in place? How is data backed up and restored? Is the software easy for your team to use? The best HIPAA-compliant cloud storage providers should make compliance seamless while supporting your workflow. Final Thoughts HIPAA-compliant cloud storage is no longer optional, it's a necessity for healthcare organizations. From large hospitals to local clinics, storing and accessing patient data in the cloud offers unmatched functionality and security. By choosing HIPAA compliant cloud storage solutions, healthcare professionals can ensure they meet regulatory requirements while providing the best possible care. If you're still asking: Is cloud storage HIPAA compliant? All you need to remember is that yes, it is possible as long as the right safeguards are in place. With the right cloud consulting companies as your partner in HIPAA compliance, like Arpatech, you needn’t worry about anything. Get the best cloud consultants for your hospital and ensure loyalty of your patients at all ends. Frequently Asked Questions Is Google Cloud Storage HIPAA compliant? Yes, Google Cloud Storage can be HIPAA compliant, but you must enter into a Business Associate Agreement (BAA) with Google and configure the services appropriately. Can HIPAA data be stored in the cloud? Yes, HIPAA data can be stored in the cloud if the cloud provider offers HIPAA-compliant cloud storage and follows all required safeguards. Is AWS Cloud HIPAA compliant? Yes, Amazon Web Services (AWS) is HIPAA-eligible. It offers many tools and features to support HIPAA compliance, including encryption, access controls, and the ability to sign a BAA. If you’ve been watching the digital space in the Middle East, you’ve probably noticed something huge: the e-commerce industry is at an all-time high. From local startups to big international players entering the market, online shopping is no longer a side hustle. It’s front and center. But what’s really driving this growth? The software behind these online stores. Let’s take a friendly dive into the e-commerce trends in the software industry and see how things are shaping up across the region. Mobile-First Shopping: Not Just an E-Commerce Trend, It’s a Lifestyle People in the Middle East are spending more time on their phones than ever before and they're using them to shop. Mobile-first e-commerce platforms are becoming the norm. Software developers are focusing on building responsive, fast, and seamless mobile shopping experiences, from personalized product feeds, and e-commerce site with amazing navigation to one-click checkouts. If your e-commerce platform doesn’t work smoothly on mobile, you’re probably missing out on a huge chunk of customers. Arabic Language and Localization Support One major thing setting the Middle East apart in terms of e-commerce software trends is the need for strong localization. Platforms that support Arabic language, RTL layouts, and local payment gateways (like Mada in Saudi Arabia or Fawry in Egypt) are winning hearts and sales. Today’s e-commerce software isn’t just about selling; it’s about connecting. And to connect, you need to speak your customer’s language, literally. AI-Powered Personalization is Changing the Game Artificial Intelligence (AI) is popping up everywhere in e-commerce, especially in recommendation engines and chatbots. Want to offer a product suggestion that feels like it was handpicked? AI is how you get it. Retailers in the Middle East are adopting smart algorithms that can track user behavior, shopping history, and even regional trends to deliver a hyper-personalized shopping experience. They also realize the role of voice search assistant in ecommerce to promote accessibility and diversity for their customers. Social Commerce is Getting Real This is one of the current trends in e-commerce that’s growing fast. People are buying directly from Instagram, TikTok, and Snapchat. E-commerce platforms in the Middle East are now integrating with social media more deeply, offering “Shop Now” buttons, influencer store links, and even live shopping features. Software that combines e-commerce and social seamlessly? That’s the future. This also enables you to gather social proof for e-commerce sales. Flexible and Secure Payment Solutions Cash on delivery used to be king, but not anymore. Customers now expect options—credit cards, Apple Pay, STC Pay, BNPL (Buy Now Pay Later), you name it. E-commerce software must integrate with a variety of payment gateways, and more importantly, keep things secure. With the rise of digital payments comes the need for robust cybersecurity measures, something developers are actively working on in 2025. Cloud-Based E-commerce Solutions Gone are the days of clunky self-hosted stores. Now make way for more businesses preferring to move to flexible, scalable, cloud-based e-commerce solutions that are easier to manage. Most particularly for small and medium enterprises in the Middle East that want the best enterprise-level applications minus the biting costs or heavy infrastructure. Single-Channel Retailing is the New Standard Online store? Check. Instagram shop? Check. WhatsApp orders? Check. Modern e-commerce isn’t about having a store, it’s about being everywhere. Software is evolving to help businesses manage inventory, customer service, and marketing across multiple channels without missing a beat. Green and Ethical E-commerce Yes, even in software! Consumers, especially younger ones, are more conscious about where and how they shop. Brands are now using e-commerce platforms that highlight sustainability features, from eco-friendly packaging tracking to carbon footprint estimators. Expect more software tools in 2025 that make it easy to sell ethically. 8 Benefits of Following E-commerce Trends in Software Industry Some key benefits of following the latest trends in the e-commerce software industry, especially for businesses in the Middle East: Improved Customer Experience Personalized recommendations, faster mobile apps, and localized interfaces (like Arabic support) make shopping more enjoyable. Happy customers = repeat customers. Higher Conversion Rates AI, smart payment gateways, and one-click checkouts reduce friction in the buying process. Trends like Buy Now, Pay Later (BNPL) make it easier for customers to say yes. Stronger Regional Relevance Following localization trends helps you better connect with Middle Eastern audiences, culturally and linguistically. You gain trust by offering familiar experiences, like local currencies and payment methods. Better Social Engagement By using social commerce tools, you meet your audience where they spend the most time—on Instagram, TikTok, and Snapchat. This leads to more organic sales and brand visibility. Operational Efficiency Cloud-based and omnichannel software solutions help you manage everything from inventory, to orders, and marketing, all in one place. Saves time, reduces errors, and improves scalability. Competitive Edge Staying updated with the e-commerce trends 2025 puts you ahead of slower-moving competitors. You appear more innovative and modern to customers. Increased Security & Trust Adopting the latest cybersecurity measures in e-commerce software protects customer data and your brand’s reputation. Builds confidence in online transactions. Sustainability as a Selling Point Leveraging green e-commerce software tools not only helps the planet, it also resonates with eco-conscious consumers. Adds a unique value proposition to your brand. Wrapping Up: What Do E-commerce Trends 2025 Mean for You? Whether you're a developer, a business owner, or just someone interested in the industry, the trends in the e-commerce software industry in the Middle East are clear: Faster, smarter, more connected, and culturally in-tune. If you’re planning to start or grow your online store, now’s a great time to explore what the latest e-commerce trends in software industry can do. Contact Arpatech today and work with the best e-commerce software development experts for your business. Frequently Asked Questions What are the major trends in e-commerce? The major trends include mobile-first shopping, AI personalization, social commerce, omnichannel experiences, and flexible payments. What are the latest trends in e-commerce? Some of the latest trends include: Integration with social platforms Use of AI for customer support and personalization Sustainability in e-commerce operations. What are the major types of e-commerce software? There are several, including: Hosted platforms (e.g., Shopify vs BigCommerce) Open-source platforms (e.g., Magento, WooCommerce) Headless commerce systems (for greater customization) Custom-built solutions (For unique business needs) What is the future of e-commerce? The future is all about personalization, automation, and multi-channel presence. AI, AR, and VR are also expected to play a bigger role, along with an increased focus on sustainability and data security. If you're part of a healthcare organization, you’ve probably heard the buzz around healthcare cloud migration in UAE. Everyone seems to be talking about going "cloud-first," but what does that mean in the healthcare world? And more importantly; how do you make the transition without disrupting care? Today, we are here to walk you through healthcare cloud migration and its benefits and challenges in healthcare. It will include a foolproof strategy to help an organization planning to migrate to cloud architecture effectively. Whether you're an IT person or a healthcare executive or just someone curious about the subject, you will find everything in simple, no-jargon language.. What is Healthcare Cloud Migration in UAE? In the rise of cloud-based services for healthcare, the main idea remains the transfer of all data, applications, and processes from physical on-site servers to a properly secured cloud infrastructure. In effect, this means a transfer from the sweatshop of an office into a much smarter, better-managed, scalable, efficient, and accessible virtual workplace. In the cloud space, this is the effortless role of cloud managed services, that act like your movers. This can include migrating: Electronic health records (EHRs) Imaging systems Appointment systems Billing and financial tools Patient portals Why the UAE is Embracing Healthcare Cloud Migration? Like the economy, the UAE is developing into an increasingly modern healthcare center. Programs such as the UAE Digital Health Strategy 2023-2030 aim to make healthcare more effective, data-driven, and patient-centric. The migration of the hybrid cloud for healthcare in the UAE serves to fulfill this vision via the safe sharing of information, speedy delivery of service, and AI-infused analytical insights. What are the Benefits of Healthcare Cloud Migration? Here are the 7 benefits of cloud migration for healthcare that are convincing hospitals and clinics across the UAE to make the move: 1. Improved Data Accessibility Doctors, nurses, and staff can access patient information anytime and from anywhere. This makes it easier to make quick and informed decisions. It also supports remote consultations and faster care delivery. 2. Cost Efficiency Healthcare providers don’t need to invest in expensive servers or IT infrastructure. With cloud services, you only pay for what you use. This helps reduce overall costs and improves budgeting. 3. Scalability As the hospital grows, cloud resources can easily grow with it. If less capacity is needed, it can also be scaled down. This flexibility helps manage resources without wasting money. 4. Enhanced Security Top cloud providers use strong encryption, cloud cryptography, and multiple layers of protection. They follow strict healthcare regulations to keep data secure. This ensures patient information stays private and safe from threats. 5. Disaster Recovery Cloud systems automatically back up data and have recovery plans in place. If there's an outage or cyberattack, data can be quickly restored. This prevents loss of critical medical records. 6. Collaboration Made Easy Medical teams across departments or cities can share files and updates instantly. This real-time access helps them work together more smoothly. Better collaboration leads to better patient care. 7. Support for AI and Big Data Cloud platforms make it easier to use advanced tools like AI for diagnosis. They also help analyze large volumes of data for trends and planning. This improves healthcare quality and decision-making. Challenges in Healthcare Cloud Migration Of course, no transition is without bumps. Here are some common hurdles that companies face when they are thinking to migrate to cloud architecture in healthcare: Data security concerns Patient data is sensitive and protected by law. You’ll need to ensure full compliance with UAE regulations and international standards. Legacy system compatibility Old systems may not be cloud-ready, requiring customization or replacement. Downtime risk If not managed well, migration can lead to temporary service disruptions. Change resistance Staff training and support are crucial to get everyone on board. Cloud Migration Strategy for Healthcare: Step-by-Step To ensure a smooth transition, here’s a simplified cloud migration strategy for healthcare providers in the UAE: 1. Assess and Plan there are three steps to access and planning within a healthcare cloud migration platform: Identify what needs to be migrated (applications, data, workloads) Understand compliance requirements (like HIPAA, UAE Health Data Law) Choose the right cloud migration services for healthcare 2. Select a Trusted Cloud Provider Look for platforms experienced in cloud migration healthcare services like Microsoft Azure, Amazon Web Services (AWS), and Google Cloud are some top names. 3. Start with Non-Critical Systems Pilot with low-risk applications to test and refine your process before going full-scale. 4. Ensure Data Integrity Work with providers that specialize in healthcare website migration to cloud services to securely transfer data without loss or corruption. 5. Train Your Staff Conduct training sessions for both IT teams and medical staff to get comfortable with the new healthcare cloud systems. 6. Monitor and Optimize After migration, continuously monitor performance and make necessary improvements. Final Thoughts Cloud migration for healthcare IT is more than simply a technological advancement; it's a radical change in the way that care is provided. And now is the ideal moment to make the change in a progressive nation like the United Arab Emirates. You can guarantee a successful, safe, and seamless cloud migration with the correct plan, partners like Arpatech, and assistance, eventually improving the experience for patients and healthcare providers. Frequently Asked Questions Why is the healthcare industry moving to the cloud? Because it offers cloud cost optimization, better data access, enhanced security, and the ability to use AI and analytics for better patient outcomes. It’s all about being faster, safer, and smarter. How is the cloud used in healthcare? Cloud is used for storing electronic health records, telemedicine platforms, managing appointments, medical imaging, billing, and even AI-driven diagnostics. It's the digital backbone of modern care. What is data migration in healthcare? Data migration in healthcare refers to securely transferring patient records, clinical systems, and other digital assets from older systems or on-premise setups to cloud-based solutions. Which cloud platform is best for healthcare? Popular choices include: Microsoft Azure: HIPAA-ready, strong compliance support AWS: Scalable with specialized healthcare tools Google Cloud: Great for AI and analytics applications in healthcare The best one depends on your specific needs and budget. It’s smart to consult cloud consulting companies for healthcare providers before making a decision. Working in healthcare instead of medical issues, are technical issues giving you a headache? Well, you’re not alone. It's a high-tech, data-driven world, and behind every smooth-running hospital or medical center is a powerful IT system that makes it all possible. If you want your clinical business or hospital to survive in today’s landscape, with protected patient care and patient info, you must get robust IT infrastructures installed in your systems. Healthcare today isn’t just about doctors, nurses, and clinics anymore. If you're in Dubai or anywhere in the UAE, you’ve probably noticed how fast the healthcare sector is growing. But here's the catch: managing the tech side of things isn't easy. That’s where Healthcare IT Support Services come into play. Whether you're running a clinic, a large hospital, or even a specialized lab, having the right IT support is no longer optional, it’s essential. Why Healthcare IT Support Services Matters? The healthcare industry has unique requirements. Unlike other businesses, there’s no room for error. Patient records need to be secure, systems should be fast and reliable at all costs, and downtime? That's simply not acceptable. That’s why IT support services in healthcare have to be more than just tech troubleshooting. They need to be strategic, responsive, have a strong incident management system, and, most importantly, be healthcare-focused. Types of IT Support for Healthcare Not all IT support is the same. Here's a quick breakdown of the main types of IT support services for healthcare companies: 1. Helpdesk and On-Site Support Round-the-clock support for fixing everyday issues, from login problems to broken printers in medical offices. With IT resource allocation services, tech teams ensure that all problems are solved by dividing resources effectively. 2. EMR/EHR System Support Electronic Medical Records and Electronic Health Records need expert handling. Healthcare IT teams ensure that they provide top-tier user access management and that they’re secure, accessible, and working without any glitches. 3. Data Backup and Disaster Recovery What happens if your system crashes? With healthcare-managed IT support services, your data is regularly backed up and can be restored in no time. 4. Network & Server Management Hospitals need reliable network systems. With the right DevSecOps service teams and IT teams monitoring traffic, preventing outages, and optimizing performance, you’ll get the best networks and server management. 5. Cybersecurity Services Healthcare data is a top target for hackers. IT support services implement firewalls, encryption, access controls, and 24/7 monitoring to protect sensitive patient information. 6. Compliance and Regulation Consulting Healthcare providers in the UAE must comply with local laws like DHA and international standards like HIPAA. That’s where healthcare IT support services consulting becomes vital. Key Healthcare IT Ecosystem Components Think of the healthcare IT system like a human body with many parts working together to stay healthy. Here are some vital components: Electronic Health Records (EHR) EHR systems are electronic means of storage where patients' medical history, diagnosis, medication, treatment plan, and laboratory results are kept digitally. It provides accurate real-time information for easier and better clinical decisions shared by the health provider. Picture Archiving and Communication Systems (PACS) PACS allows medical images like X-rays, CT scans, and MRIs that may be stored, retrieved, and sent electronically. It does away with the physical films, thus speeding up the process of diagnostics and enabling distance consultations. Practice Management Software This software handles the administrative side of healthcare, appointment scheduling, billing, claims processing, and patient registration. It streamlines workflow and helps clinics operate more efficiently. Telemedicine Platforms Telemedicine enables virtual consultations between doctors and patients through secure video conferencing tools. It expands access to care, especially in remote areas, and supports follow-ups and chronic condition management. Health Information Exchange (HIE) HIE systems facilitate safe health information transferring among various health care organizations. That way, continuity of care may be achieved, especially when patients are shifted from one provider to another, from one hospital to another, or from one clinic to another. Cybersecurity Tools Cybersecurity technologies, used by healthcare facilities to safeguard sensitive data from breaches, ransomware, and threats, include firewalls, encryption, multi-factor authentication, and real-time threat monitoring. Mobile Health Apps Mobile apps help patients track fitness, medications, appointments, and chronic conditions. On the provider side, apps can assist with accessing EHRs or telemedicine services on the go, boosting convenience and engagement. Internet of Things (IoT) Medical Devices With the help of IoT devices, like smart heart monitors, glucose meters, and wearable fitness trackers, you can collect real-time patient data. This enables proactive care, remote monitoring, and better chronic disease management. All of these need specialized, healthcare-specific IT support services to function smoothly and securely. Why Outsource Healthcare IT Support? You might be thinking; shouldn’t we just hire our own team? Great question. But here's why outsourcing healthcare-managed IT support services might actually be a better move: Access to Expertise You get a team with experience in healthcare IT services and support, not just generic tech support. They utilize the comprehensive IT help desk supporting ticketing system to organize all incidents and issues and effectively prioritize each problem. Cost-Effective Hiring, training, and managing an in-house team is expensive. Outsourcing saves time and money. Scalable Solutions Whether you're expanding or integrating new technology, outsourced teams can scale with you. This way, ultimately, you can go from a small clinic to a large hospital with loyal patients and robust overall IT connections. Better Security Reputable IT support companies offer top-tier cybersecurity, data encryption, and compliance strategies. Focus on Patient Care Let IT pros handle the backend while your medical staff focuses on what they do best—caring for patients. So, who should you trust in Dubai? There are several healthcare IT companies in the UAE, but look for those that offer: Industry-specific experience 24/7 support Proven security protocols DHA or HAAD compliance experience Positive client testimonials Final Thoughts In today’s digital healthcare landscape, having the right IT support services for healthcare isn’t just a luxury, it’s mission-critical. Especially in a tech-forward city like Dubai, where innovation meets high expectations, healthcare providers must keep up with the pace. Whether you're a small clinic or a large hospital network, investing in the right healthcare IT help desk support services can help you run more efficiently, protect patient data, and focus on what matters most, delivering quality care. We, at Arpatech, believe that with optimal IT infrastructure, you can deliver the best healthcare possible. So, let's connect today! Frequently Asked Questions What is the role of IT in healthcare? IT in healthcare plays a vital role in managing patient data, supporting clinical decisions, enabling telemedicine, ensuring compliance, and improving operational efficiency. It’s the backbone that supports better, faster, and safer patient care. Which healthcare IT company is best for UAE? There are several top-tier IT providers in Dubai and the wider UAE that specialize in healthcare. Some popular names include Injazat, MENAITech, and bespoke local providers offering healthcare-specific IT support services. Always evaluate based on your facility's size, needs, and budget. What are the advantages of IT Support in healthcare? Improved patient care and safety Faster access to medical records Secure handling of sensitive data Compliance with regulations Reduced downtime and technical issues Wouldn’t outsourcing IT management threaten our information security? It’s a valid concern, but only if you're working with the wrong provider. Trusted IT support companies use advanced cybersecurity protocols, encryption, and round-the-clock monitoring to improve your data security, not weaken it. Just make sure they have experience with healthcare managed IT services support and meet UAE compliance standards. Let’s be honest, running a medical practice is no small feat. From managing patient records to ensuring HIPAA compliance, there’s a lot going on behind the scenes. And guess what keeps it all running smoothly? Yup, you guessed it, IT support for medical practices. Whether you're a small clinic or a multi-location medical office, having reliable IT services for medical practices isn't just helpful, it’s essential. So, if you're wondering what medical practice IT support really means and why it's such a game-changer, keep reading. We’re breaking it down in simple terms! What is Medical Practice IT Support? It's like having a behind-the-scenes tech team of all your medical ventures - that's what medical practice IT support is all about. Cunningly packed, they keep all your computers and software, patient management systems, and data security always running like a well-oiled machine. From network establishment to troubleshooting slow systems of the calamity hour, the IT support for the healthcare sector ensures that an employee may concentrate on doing the best they can: patient care. Why is IT Support for Medical Offices So Important? Ever tried to check a patient’s chart and the system crashes? Or worse, faced a cyberattack that puts confidential data at risk? That’s where medical office IT support steps in to save the day. Some real-life reasons why IT support for medical practice services are a must: Ensures 24/7 Uptime for EHR (Electronic Health Records) EHR systems are the lifeblood of any current medical practice. If they go down, even for a few minutes, the entire workflow can come to a halt. Reliable IT support ensures that your records are available when needed, keeping patient care in progress and stress levels low. Protects Sensitive Patient Information Patient data are highly confidential, and hackers know that. With professional IT support for the healthcare sector, your systems are equipped with the best security tools such as encryption, firewalls, and secure login protocols to keep all information secure Helps You Comply with HIPAA and Other Regulations HIPAA compliance isn’t optional, it’s the law and its necessary. And the rules are pretty strict when it comes to protecting patient data. A trusted IT support provider ensures your systems meet all legal requirements, helping you avoid penalties and stay compliant at all times. Streamlines Communication Between Departments When your systems are connected and running smoothly, communication becomes a breeze. From front-desk check-ins to back-office billing, IT support medical practice solutions help everyone stay in sync without delays or tech hiccups. Supports Telemedicine Services and Patient Portals With more patients relying on virtual care and online access to their records, your tech needs to be on point. IT support helps set up and maintain secure telehealth platforms and user-friendly patient portals so everyone stays connected. What Do Medical Practice IT Support Solutions Include? Great question! Not all IT support is created equal, especially when it comes to IT support for medical clinics. A solid service provider will offer the following essentials: 24/7 Helpdesk Support When tech issues pop up, which they do unannounced all the time, you need help right away. A 24/7 helpdesk gives your staff access to IT pros anytime, whether it’s a slow computer or a login issue before a busy morning shift. Data Backup & Disaster Recovery Accidents, power failures, or ransomware attacks can wipe out important files in seconds. That’s why regular backups and a strong recovery plan are must-haves. Your IT team makes sure data is backed up and easy to restore if something goes wrong. Network Monitoring IT support doesn't just fix things, it prevents problems too. With constant monitoring, your network can alert technicians of any weird activity or performance drops before they become a major headache. HIPAA Compliance Support IT pros who specialize in medical offices know the ins and outs of HIPAA. With HIPAA-compliant cloud storage for healthcare professionals can make sure their systems are updated, secure, and follow all the rules to keep them in compliance and out of legal trouble. EMR/EHR Support: Smooth Integration and Updates Electronic health record (EHR) systems and electronic medical record (EMR) systems are highly complicated to implement. The IT personnel in your organization will need to make sure that more or less everything is kept in order during the installation and that any updating is overseen as expediently as possible in order to minimize disruption to the system environment. Cybersecurity: Firewalls, Antivirus, and Encryption Cyber threats are real and growing. From phishing scams to malware, there are multiple forms of cyber threats out there. Cybersecurity is on the rise and getting closer to reality every day. IT experts set up antivirus tools, firewalls, and encryption to ensure that patient data is secure. Cloud Solutions: For Storage, Communication, and Remote Work Whether you need more storage or flexible work options, cloud services are a game-changer. Your IT support provider can help you move safely to the cloud and set up secure, HIPAA-compliant access for your staff. So, if you're looking for reliable medical practice IT support solutions, make sure your provider covers all the bases above. Benefits of Reliable IT Support for Medical Practices Here’s how professional IT services for medical practices can seriously level up your operations: Better Patient Experience When systems run fast and smoothly, your patients spend less time waiting and more time receiving care. Everything from check-in to prescriptions becomes quicker and more efficient—boosting satisfaction across the board. Fewer Downtimes Unplanned system outages can cause chaos. Reliable IT support means your software and hardware are monitored and maintained regularly, drastically reducing the chance of downtime during critical hours. Stronger Security Cybersecurity threats can be devastating for medical offices. A good IT team defends your systems with firewalls, antivirus programs, and regular updates. Cybersecurity solutions for healthcare sector protect both your patients’ data and your clinic’s reputation. Cost Savings IT issues can cost you time and money, especially if they result in system failure or data loss. With proactive support, many issues are fixed before they escalate, saving you from big repair bills or legal fines. More Focus on Patients Instead of your team scrambling to fix a printer or troubleshoot a login error, they can concentrate on providing great care. IT support takes care of the tech stuff so your staff can do what they do best. Final Thoughts Technology is the backbone of modern healthcare cloud migration, and your practice deserves IT support that’s just as reliable as your care. Whether you’re starting fresh or looking to upgrade your current setup, choosing the right IT support for medical offices can help your practice run smarter, safer, and smoother. Need help finding the right IT support for your medical practice? Look for companies working worldwide. From healthcare IT support services in Dubai to the USA, Arpatech is offering solutions internationally. Let’s connect with the best IT Support Service Professionals today! Frequently Asked Questions Why should we outsource our Medical Practice IT Support? Outsourcing means you get expert-level support without having to hire an in-house team. That’s a big win in terms of cost, skill level, and round-the-clock coverage. You’ll also stay ahead of the tech curve without having to research every new update or regulation. What are the 5 benefits of outsourcing medical practice IT Support? Cost-Effective – No need to pay full-time salaries or benefits. Scalable – Easily upgrade services as your practice grows. Expertise – Access to a whole team of specialized IT professionals. Security-First Approach – Better protection for sensitive data. Focus on Care – Spend less time on IT headaches and more time with patients. What is the cost of IT support for medical offices/practices? Costs can vary based on the size of your practice and the services you need. On average: Small practices: $500–$1,500/month Mid-sized practices: $1,500–$3,000/month Larger practices or multi-location clinics: $3,000+/month Some providers offer flat-rate plans, while others charge per device or per user. It’s always a good idea to get a custom quote based on your specific setup. Healthcare has gone digital. Today’s patients want convenience, and healthcare providers want streamlined processes. That’s where patient portal software comes in. Whether you're a hospital admin or a health-tech startup founder, this guide breaks down everything you need to know about patient portal software development in 2025: from types and features to cost and compliance. What Is a Patient Portal? Patient portals: secure online accommodations for patients to access their medical records, communicate with providers, and manage their care at their convenience at any time of the night or day. These offer personalized and yet transparent healthcare experiences that can find an apt place in between patients and their healthcare providers. Think of it like online banking, but for your health. Why Is Patient Portal Software Development Important? Thus, healthcare is moving at quite a pace, and patients expect more in controlling their health journeys. Patient portal software development thus helps them realize the above-mentioned goals through reduced paperwork, increased transparency, and the establishment of less time-consuming channels of communication. It also enhances compliance, thus increasing patient satisfaction, which are the two primary objectives in modern healthcare. Common Features of Patient Portal Software Development When you're planning patient portal development for healthcare providers, these features are typically essential: Secure Login & User Authentication Patients must log in through a secure portal, often using two-factor authentication to ensure data is protected against unauthorized access. Access to Health Records Health access would allow patients to view their lab results, diagnoses, prescriptions, and past visit notes, putting them in charge of their health. Appointment Scheduling The patient can use the portal to book or reschedule appointments or cancel them without having to call up the clinic or wait in line. Billing & Payments Securely view medical bills, make payments online, and access insurance coverage information, all in one place. Prescription Refill Requests Rather than calling a clinic, patients can request medication refills through the portal with just a few clicks. Messaging with Providers Patients can send secure messages to their doctors, nurses, or administrative staff for non-emergency concerns and follow-ups. Telehealth Integration The integration of telehealth services in the portal includes video consultations, which provide patients with easy access to care from home. Push Notifications & Reminders Patients receive automatic alerts reminding them of upcoming appointments, test results, and unread messages, thus keeping them in the know. Features of Patient Portal App Solutions in 2025 As patient expectations grow, modern patient portal app solutions are becoming more intelligent and personalized: AI-powered Symptom Checkers Integrated AI tools help patients identify possible conditions and guide them toward the right care without immediate doctor input. Personalized Health Insights Based on medical history and lifestyle data, the portal can deliver tailored health recommendations and reminders. Wearable Device Integration Sync with devices like smartwatches to track vitals such as heart rate, steps, or blood pressure in real-time. Multilingual Support Portals now offer interfaces in multiple languages to improve accessibility for diverse patient populations. Accessibility Tools Features like screen readers, text enlargement, and voice navigation support patients with visual or physical disabilities. Family Access Tools Authorized caregivers or family members can manage medications, view test results, and book appointments for their loved ones. Types of Information That Can Be Managed via Patient Portal Development The value of patient portal software lies in the variety of data it can handle, all from a single platform: Electronic Health Records (EHRs) Patients can view their medical history, diagnoses, test results, and immunization records at any time. Immunization History Especially important for children, travel, and public health events, this data helps patients stay current on required vaccines. Lab and Test Results Patients get notified and can review lab results as soon as they’re uploaded, often faster than waiting for a call. Visit Summaries After each appointment, patients receive a summary including physician notes, treatment plans, and prescribed medications. Treatment Plans Personalized care plans are accessible online, helping patients stay on track with medications, therapy, or follow-ups. Medication Lists and Refill History Complete lists of prescribed drugs with refill tracking help avoid medication errors and improve adherence. Insurance and Billing Details Patients can check what their insurance covers, view balances, download invoices, and pay bills online. Progress Notes and Care Plans Physicians can upload progress updates, allowing patients to track their recovery and understand next steps. Types of Patient Portal Software Depending on the healthcare setting, user requirements, and cloud software, different types of patient portal software can be developed: Standalone Portals These are developed as independent solutions and are often preferred by small practices that don’t have existing EHR systems. Integrated EHR Portals These are connected to the provider’s existing Electronic Health Record system, creating a seamless data exchange between doctors and patients. This way, the providers can effortlessly provide healthcare IT support services in Dubai to doctors or patients if they find any glitch in the IT matrix. Mobile Patient Portal Apps Designed for smartphones and tablets, these apps give patients access on the go, perfect for busy individuals who need health data at their fingertips. Custom Patient Portals Built from the ground up, these are customized to the exact needs of a clinic, hospital, or health network, offering maximum flexibility and branding. How Much Does It Cost to Develop a Patient Portal? You’re probably wondering: how much does it cost to develop a patient portal? Here's what to expect based on complexity: Basic Portal: $20,000 – $40,000 Mid-level with EHR & Telehealth: $50,000 – $100,000 Full-featured Custom Solution: $100,000+ Costs include design, development, testing, deployment, healthcare cloud migration, and post-launch support. A skilled custom patient portal development team can guide you in optimizing budget and features. Final Thoughts In 2025, patient portal software development is not just about digitizing medical records, it’s about empowering patients, improving outcomes, and making care more accessible for every person. Whether you want to create a basic solution or a feature-rich platform, investing in a patient portal helps future-proof your healthcare delivery model. At Arpatech, our software development services are top-notch. Partner with our expert software and cloud experts and get future-ready patient portal today. Frequently Asked Questions How long does it take to develop a custom patient portal software? Typically, a basic version may take 3–4 months to put together. Highly customized and feature-rich portals may take 6–9 months or more to make, especially in cases wherein complex integrations and compliance testing are involved. How does patient portal software ensure data security and HIPAA compliance? Portals apply a variety of cybersecurity applied by encryption, secure login protocols, audit trails, and role-based access control. They are also subjected to regulation, such as HIPAA-compliant cloud storage for healthcare professionals in the USA, ensuring the security and confidentiality of patients' information. What features should be included in a patient portal software? Key features in a patient portal software include: Secure login Access to medical records Medical practice IT support Online appointment booking Billing and payments Prescription refills Secure messaging. Advanced features might include telehealth, AI chat, and wearable integrations. If you’re thinking about developing your own patient portal software, now’s the time to act. Let’s talk about how to bring your vision to life. If you've ever wondered how much does Epic cost in 2025, especially in Europe, you’re not alone. Whether you’re a healthcare provider, a hospital administrator, or just someone curious about healthcare tech, Epic has probably popped up on your radar. But before we dive into the cost side of things, let’s take a step back, what exactly is Epic, and why is it such a big deal? What is Epic? Epic Systems is one of the biggest names when it comes to healthcare software. They offer electronic health records (EHRs), medical billing tools, patient engagement apps, basically everything a healthcare provider might need to keep patient information organized and secure. Whether you hear people asking how much does Epic EMR cost, or how much does Epic medical software cost, they're all talking about this same ecosystem of tools that power some of the world's best hospitals and clinics. Epic is widely praised for how smoothly it connects different parts of the patient experience. From the moment you walk into a clinic to the follow-up email you get after a surgery, Epic can power it all behind the scenes. Pretty cool, right? Why Epic is Worth Considering? In my opinion, one of Epic’s biggest strengths is how scalable it is. A large hospital group and a small private practice can both find value in using it (though the setup would obviously look a little different). It is also equipped with features such as telehealth, patient portals, advanced analytics, and even AI recommendations for doctors. A lot of people are curious: How much does Epic cost for a hospital? How much are Epic EHR monthly fees? Such is the capacity of the software that many feel it should be worth the investment. Now, let’s talk a little bit about the cost side, without drowning in too many numbers. So, How Much Does Epic Cost in Europe in 2025? First, it’s important to know that Epic doesn’t really have a one-size-fits-all price. It depends on factors like the size of your practice, the number of users, and how complex your needs are. That’s why you’ll often hear questions like how much does Epic cost for a clinic versus how much does Epic cost hospital, because they can be very different! In Europe in 2025, Epic pricing still follows the general trend of being a premium option. For Larger Hospitals You're typically looking at a multi-million euro investment, but again, this covers the software, licensing, and often a lot of training and support too. You are also obligated to follow certain protocol and be HIPAA compliant cloud storage for healthcare Professionals. For Smaller Clinics or Private Practices You’ll still find that Epic is one of the more expensive options. People searching how much does Epic cost for a small clinic or how much does Epic cost for a private practice will find that costs can be relatively high compared to more lightweight solutions. Monthly Costs If you’re wondering how much does Epic EHR cost per month, it usually isn't billed monthly the way some subscription services are. Most agreements are long-term, often structured around yearly licensing and support. In short: Epic tends to be a significant but long-term investment, particularly favored by institutions that want a comprehensive, reliable system. Other Epic Products and Their Costs You might have heard about other Epic products like Epic Universe, their next-gen platform integrating even more patient services, AI, and mobile support. So if you’re asking how much does Epic Universe cost, just know it’s currently bundled into broader service agreements and remains a premium offering in 2025. Factors That Influence Epic Pricing Several factors affect how much Epic software costs: Size of the practice: Larger facilities will pay more because they need more licenses, more modules, and more customization. Customization needs: Tailoring Epic to your organization’s workflows can drive up the price. Implementation support: Epic often requires dedicated consultants for setup, training, and optimization. Ongoing support and maintenance: Regular updates and helpdesk services are usually part of a service contract. Hidden Costs to Consider with Epic Implementation When evaluating Epic for your healthcare organization, it’s crucial to recognize that the initial sticker price is just the beginning. There are several hidden costs that can significantly impact your budget and planning. Here are some important "gotchas" to keep in mind: Training & Onboarding Training properly is vital to the success of an Epic rollout, but it can prove extravagant. In my opinion, organizations often underestimate this cost. Training and onboarding costs can easily be beyond €100,000 depending on the size of the staff, while big hospitals or healthcare systems can spend much, much more. This includes initial and ongoing training, costs for trainers, development of custom training materials, certification programs for key users, and need for refresher courses as time passes and the system changes. IT Infrastructure Upgrades Epic's software is quite heavy in its performance and resource usage. Your current infrastructure such as IT, servers, storage, cloud, healthcare IT Support Services, and network bandwidth may require a huge makeover to meet Epic's performance and security requirements. In my opinion, this can be a hidden iceberg: hardware, cloud service, cybersecurity solutions, and IT staff expansion costs wind up tacking on hundreds of thousands more to the total cost of the project. Customization & Integration It is flexible, yet costly to make hidden costs known in the integration of other existing laboratory systems, imaging equipment, Patient portal software, billing systems, insurance portals, and outside applications. Usually, this involves engaging a consultant with specialized knowledge, middleware solution, and extensive testing, thus greatly increasing the total cost of the project. Without careful budgeting for the taking up of costs due to integration, it may become a much greater cause for delay and budget overruns than you have ever seen. Downtime & Productivity Loss During Implementation There will be a learning curve no matter how much you prepare for the change to Epic. Your staff will be productively spending time with new workflows and away from patient appointments and, therefore, it will reduce productivity in the short term. Some partial downtime may occur on the system while migrations or updates are in effect, thus further temporarily disrupting operations. Even in my view, therefore, one must plan for a period of reduced operational efficiency, stretching at least to several months, and assign additional resources to help bridge the gap. Is Epic Worth the Cost? Honestly? It depends on what you need. Epic is like the Mercedes-Benz of EHR systems. It’s sleek, powerful, and made for serious healthcare players. But if you're a small practice just starting out, it might be like buying a Ferrari to drive to the grocery store. Pros: Comprehensive feature set Scalable and secure Trusted globally Cons: High cost Complex implementation Not ideal for super-small clinics unless supported through a partner hospita Final Thoughts That’s why when you hear people ask things like how much does Epic cost per year or how much does Epic Systems cost, it’s so variable. It’s almost like asking, "how much does a car cost?", it depends on the model, the features, and the size. In the end, when asking how much does Epic cost, it's really about asking how much you’re willing to invest in a long-term healthcare solution and medical practice IT support. It’s not cheap, but it’s designed to be powerful, secure, and future-proof. So, get the expertise of software developers and IT support staff at Arpatech to get the best software update for your healthcare system. Frequently Asked Questions How much does it cost to implement Epic in a hospital? Implementation costs for Epic in a hospital can easily reach into the millions of euros. It includes licensing, infrastructure, training, customization, and support. Big hospitals often see this as a necessary long-term investment to provide top-tier patient care. How much does an EMR system cost? For general EMR systems (not just Epic), costs can range widely, from a few thousand euros a year for basic setups, to millions for enterprise-grade solutions like Epic. Cloud-based EMRs tend to be more affordable upfront compared to on-premise giants. How much does Epic cost by practice size? Small practices: Epic can still be expensive compared to other EMR options, and might not be the most cost-effective choice unless there’s a very specific need. Medium-sized clinics: Costs grow with user count and complexity, but Epic offers more modules and integrations. Large hospitals: The highest costs, but also the highest levels of customization, support, and system capabilities. When you’re running a healthcare facility, whether it’s a clinic in France, a hospital in Germany, or a private practice in the UK, managing the financial side of things can get really complicated. That’s where Revenue Cycle Management (RCM) comes in. And if you're wondering things like What is revenue cycle management and why is it important?, you’re in the right place. The RCM market is said to go above $238 billion by the year 2030. So, let’s break down exactly what RCM is, why it matters, and how you (yes, you!) can implement a robust and effective RCM system in your healthcare practice. Think of this as your no-nonsense, step-by-step guide tailored especially for healthcare providers across Europe. What is Revenue Cycle Management (RCM)? Let’s start with the basics. Revenue Cycle Management in healthcare refers to the financial process that healthcare facilities use to track patient care episodes from registration and appointment scheduling to the final payment of a balance. In simpler terms, it’s everything that happens between a patient walking through your doors and you getting paid for treating them. So, what is revenue cycle management in medical billing? It’s the engine behind ensuring claims are submitted properly, payments are collected, and nothing falls through the cracks. Why is Revenue Cycle Management Important? You could be offering the best patient care in the region, but without an efficient revenue cycle, your practice may struggle financially. Here's what is the purpose of revenue cycle management: Improve cash flow by reducing payment delays Reduce errors that lead to claim denials Ensure compliance with health regulations Provide better patient experience with transparent billing And for hospitals, the stakes are even higher. What is hospital revenue cycle management? It’s the backbone of financial operations, helping large systems manage complex workflows, insurance contracts, and high patient volumes. What is End-to-End Revenue Cycle Management? End-to-end RCM covers the entire process, starting from the moment a patient schedules an appointment to the point when the bill is paid in full. This includes: Patient registration This is the first and foundational step of the revenue cycle. During registration, patient information such as demographics, contact details, and insurance coverage is collected and recorded. Accurate registration is crucial as any error here can affect the entire billing process. Insurance verification European healthcare providers must often verify insurance through government-funded programs or private insurers. This step ensures patients are entitled to specific treatments under state-funded coverage or private health plans. Verifying eligibility and co-payment responsibilities helps prevent billing surprises and improves the patient experience. Charge capture Charge capture is the process of documenting the services provided to a patient during a visit. Whether operating under Diagnosis-Related Groups (DRG) systems or private billing models, charge capture is essential. This process records the clinical services provided and converts them into billable items. Inaccurate or incomplete charge capture can lead to underbilling and lost revenue, especially in countries transitioning to value-based care models. Coding and billing Medical coding involves converting diagnoses, procedures, and medical services into standardized codes. European healthcare billing must comply with international coding standards such as ICD-10 and CPT/HCPCS, as well as country-specific requirements. This is just like how the US healthcare providers are expected to follow the HIPAA-compliant cloud storage for healthcare Professionals. Proper coding ensures accurate billing, whether dealing with national health services or private insurers. It also supports compliance with cross-border care regulations under the EU directive on patients’ rights Claims submission Once the billing is completed, claims are submitted. Delivering claims efficiently, whether to national health authorities, insurances, or third-party payers, is key to timely reimbursement. European healthcare providers often deal with a mix of funding sources, so it’s critical to tailor submissions to meet the criteria of each payer. Denial management Denial management involves identifying, analyzing, and correcting claim denials to ensure payment is received. Managing and reducing claim denials is especially important in Europe, where billing systems can vary greatly between countries and even regions. A strong denial management system helps providers understand the reasons behind rejections, correct issues quickly, and secure reimbursement. This ensures that providers can maintain healthy revenue streams and meet financial targets. Patient collections Once insurance payments settle the bill, the responsibility for any remaining balance lies with the patient. In Europe and especially in countries with a private insurance or co-payment system, it has become more common for organizations to pursue the collection of balances from patients. Further enhancements in collection rate are seen with transparent billing systems, multilingual invoices, and flexible payment plans that build patient trust and satisfaction. Reporting and analytics With reporting and analytics, insights into the financial health of the revenue cycle management process and operational performance are derived. Continuous analysis is, therefore, required for identifying bottlenecks, tracking KPIs, and improving the processes. Some reporting and analytics aid in European healthcare chooses to monitor key areas like Days Sales Outstanding (DSO), denial rates, and payment turnaround. This is what makes up the revenue cycle management process and why it’s so essential to get it right. Step-by-Step Guide to Implementing a Robust RCM System in Europe Here’s your roadmap to building a solid revenue cycle management system from the ground up: Step 1: Assess Your Current Financial Workflow Take a hard look at your existing billing process. Are claims often rejected? Are you struggling with collections? Identifying the gaps is the first step. Step 2: Choose the Right RCM Partner or Software Whether you hire a third-party revenue cycle management services provider or invest in an in-house system, make sure the solution: Integrates with your EHR Supports local compliance laws (GDPR, NHS standards, etc.) Is scalable and user-friendly offers cybersecurity for healthcare sectors Step 3: Train Your Staff Everyone, from admin, billing team, and clinicians, all should understand the RCM process. Training ensures fewer data entry errors and smoother claims handling. Step 4: Standardize Patient Registration and Eligibility Verification Incorrect patient data is one of the biggest reasons for claim denial. Set clear protocols for collecting accurate info and verifying insurance coverage upfront for the Paitient portal. Step 5: Implement Clean Coding and Charge Capture Work with trained medical coders who understand both ICD-10 and local European healthcare coding systems. Consider automation to reduce manual entry errors. Step 6: Streamline Claims Management Automate claims submissions and track denials in real time. A good RCM system can flag errors before they even get sent to insurers. Step 7: Improve Patient Billing and Collections Make it easy for patients to understand their bills. Offer digital statements, multiple payment options, and set up automated reminders. Step 8: Monitor, Report, Improve Use data analytics to review how your revenue cycle is performing. Identify trends like frequent claim denials or delayed payments and fix them proactively. RCM in Healthcare: Europe vs. USA While the revenue cycle management for hospitals in the U.S. often deals with private insurers and CMS regulations, Europe is more nuanced with its mix of public and private systems. Still, the principles of end-to-end RCM apply on both sides of the Atlantic. European providers should ensure their RCM solutions are: Compliant with GDPR Adaptable to country-specific public health schemes Multilingual and interoperable with European EHR systems Final Thoughts: Why Now is the Time to Strengthen Your RCM With rising operational costs and tighter margins, efficient revenue cycle management is no longer a luxury, it’s a necessity. Implementing a smart revenue cycle management system with good Medical Practice IT support, like Arpatech, can help you stay financially healthy while focusing on what truly matters: patient care. Let’s make you efficient and successful! Frequently Asked Questions What is revenue lifecycle management? Revenue lifecycle management is the broader process of managing all revenue-related activities, from service delivery to payment collection, including forecasting and reporting. It often overlaps with RCM but is a more holistic, business-oriented term. What are the three main components of revenue cycle management? The three main components of revenue cycle management are: Front-end: Patient scheduling, registration, eligibility verification Mid-cycle: Clinical documentation, charge capture, coding Back-end: Claims submission, denial management, collections What are the three pillars of RCM? The three pillars of RCM are: People: Trained staff handling billing and coding Processes: Standardized, optimized workflows Technology: Reliable RCM software for automation and reporting All eyes are on the Middle East today. With all industries taking off in the right direction, the UAE's healthcare sector is also similarly booming. With state-of-the-art hospitals, tech-driven clinics, and world-class patient care, it’s no surprise that the demand for healthcare outsourcing services is on the rise. But what exactly does that mean? And is outsourcing in healthcare services really the way forward? Today, let’s break it down: the benefits, challenges, and smart solutions healthcare organizations are using. What Are Healthcare Outsourcing Services? In layman language, outsourcing in the case of healthcare services is those unique services that allow an organization to hire external agencies or other individuals to perform certain tasks in relation to healthcare. Instead of doing everything by themselves, like billing, IT management, or development of patient portal software, or even patient support, healthcare providers would just go and get into partnership with the specialized companies. Under the umbrella of a broader category called healthcare business process outsourcing services (or healthcare BPO), the practice transforms the modus operandi of hospitals and clinics today. Why is Outsourcing Healthcare Services Becoming Popular in UAE? When we are seeing technology take flight in the Middle Eastern hub, there must be a number of reasons why. So, let’s discuss a few of them: Rapid Healthcare Growth With new hospitals and clinics popping up across the UAE, managing everything in-house has become overwhelming. Outsourcing helps healthcare providers keep up with growing operational demands. Focus on Core Services Doctors and nurses should spend their time healing people, not stuck in administrative tasks. Outsourcing lets medical teams stay focused on what truly matters, patient care. Cost Control Hiring and training full-time staff for every function is costly. Outsourcing cuts down these expenses, offering expert services at a fraction of the price. Technology Demands Healthcare is going digital fast, think telehealth, digital records, and AI diagnostics. Outsourcing IT services in healthcare brings in the tech expertise needed to stay ahead without heavy in-house investments. Benefits of Healthcare Outsourcing Services Let’s dive into why so many healthcare organizations are choosing to outsource: 1. Cost Savings Running an in-house team for billing, IT, or customer support is expensive. Outsourcing trims down staffing costs, infrastructure investments, and training expenses. 2. Access to Expertise You get access to highly trained specialists without having to hire them full-time. This is especially valuable for technical areas like outsourcing IT services in healthcare. 3. Improved Efficiency Healthcare outsourcing companies specialize in what they do, meaning faster turnarounds, fewer errors, and smoother operations. 4. Scalability Need to ramp up quickly during a flu season? Outsourcing lets you scale up or down depending on your needs. 5. Better Patient Experience When you allow health workers to focus less on admin overload, the workers are able to pay more attention to the patients in the hospital. There are also many BPO providers that do customer support outsourcing, like 24/7 call center operations. Therefore, every healthcare facility can ensure their clients are always heard. Challenges of Healthcare Outsourcing Services Of course, it’s not all smooth sailing. Let’s talk about the challenges of healthcare outsourcing services: Data Privacy Risks Healthcare data is sensitive. Handing it over to a third party can expose you to privacy breaches if not handled properly. Compliance Complexities Different regulations like HIPAA, GDPR (especially with international outsourcing), and local UAE healthcare laws must be followed strictly. Communication Gaps Miscommunication can lead to confusions and errors in association with your outsourcing partners if they do not fit within the frameworks of your processes. Loss of Control You are giving a part of your operations to another person when you outsource. Without the clear delineation of what is going on, this can cause some serious issues. Smart Solutions to Overcome Outsourcing Challenges Here’s the good news, these challenges can be tackled with some smart moves: Choose the Right Partner Always go with trusted healthcare outsourcing companies that have proven experience. They’ll know the ins and outs of healthcare rules and patient data safety. Prioritize Compliance Make sure your outsourcing partner follows healthcare laws like HIPAA or local UAE regulations. Check for certifications and secure data handling practices. Clear Communication Keep everyone on the same page with regular check-ins, updates, and shared dashboards. Good communication avoids confusion and keeps quality high. Detailed Contracts Write down everything clearly in your agreements, from what tasks are expected to timelines and quality standards. This avoids surprises later. When you take these steps, the pros and cons of outsourcing healthcare services tilt heavily in favor of the pros. Examples of Outsourcing in Healthcare Still wondering how outsourcing looks in real life? Here are some examples of outsourcing in healthcare: Medical Billing and Coding: Specialized companies handle billing, insurance claims, and coding. Healthcare IT Support: Managing hospital software, cybersecurity, cloud storage, telehealth platforms, and enabling healthcare cloud migration. Telemedicine Support: Setting up and managing remote patient care platforms. Customer Service: Call centers that handle appointment scheduling, patient queries, and follow-ups. Medical Transcription: Converting doctor notes into structured reports. Final Thoughts Outsourcing healthcare services, especially in the UAE's fast-growing market, is no longer a luxury to have; it's a smart business move to step forward with the competition. While challenges exist, they can be easily managed with the right partners and careful planning. Whether you’re looking to save costs, improve efficiency, or deliver better patient experiences, Arpatech’s healthcare business process outsourcing services could be the perfect solution for your organization. Just remember: outsourcing in healthcare services isn’t just about offloading work, it’s about finding the right partners who can help you serve your patients better, so leave us a message today! Frequently Asked Questions What is healthcare process outsourcing? Healthcare process outsourcing means hiring an external service provider to handle non-clinical but critical functions like billing, data entry, claims management, and medical practice IT support for healthcare providers. What is medical outsourcing? Medical outsourcing focuses specifically on clinical-related activities, like telemedicine, remote diagnostics, lab testing, and even hiring specialized medical professionals from third-party vendors. What specific services does healthcare offer for customer support outsourcing? Healthcare organizations often outsource customer support for: Appointment scheduling Insurance verification Patient feedback collection 24/7 helplines Billing inquiries Medical information requests This helps in ensuring a consistent, reliable patient experience. How does Rely Services ensure compliance in healthcare outsourcing? Rely Services, one of the prominent healthcare outsourcing companies, ensures compliance by: Following HIPAA-compliant cloud storage for healthcare Professionals, GDPR, and local regulations Providing staff training on data security Using encrypted systems to protect patient data Conducting regular audits and quality checks Having clear contractual clauses around compliance responsibilities Their approach ensures that sensitive healthcare data is handled with the highest standards of security and confidentiality. Artificial Intelligence's Future: How It Will Transform the World 13 Security Features That Your Magento Site Needs Free and Easy Tools That Help You Improve Your Website An Overview of Web Development in 2018 and Beyond How AI is Effectively Revamping the Digital Marketing Landscape Magento Master Makers of 2016 you must follow Upgrading Magento 1 to Magento 2 Should you move on? How Mobile App Development Will Transform Beyond IOT How VR Is Influencing Mobile App Development How Virtual Reality Can Impact Business The Best Business Ideas For Women Entrepreneurs 11 Advantages of Digital Marketing For Your Business Top 10 Advantages Of Digital Marketing For Small Business 10 Best Tools for PHP Development in 2019 Top 10 Benefits of Using Laravel Framework Unlocking Magento's Potential: Expert Insights on Customization 12 Web Development Trends You Must Know About in 2016 From Mistake to Mastery: Marius Strajeru's Magento Master 2016 Story How to add customer attribute in Magento 2.x How to Configure Google Analytics in Magento How to configure URL Rewrites in Magento 2 How to Secure Magento 2 Store Against Brute Force Attacks Learn How to Backup and Rollback in Magento 2 Mage Titans Austin, TX USA 2016 When is Google’s birthday? The Only thing wrong with the Google’s 18th birthday celebratory doodle Don’t Get Discouraged If You Fail. You Only Truly Fail If You Give Up! - Interview With Sean Breeden It’s easy and fun to lead a team while you are in the second phase. Interview with Tim Bezhashvyly Get Ready For the Very First Magento Meetup in Dubai on 29th October How to Configure Currency in Magento 2 How to Configure Multiple Stores in Magento 2 How to Display Customized Category Listing Listing in Magento Store How to Secure Magento Against SQL Injections: A Step-by-Step Guide Insight Edges of Magento Front-end Development with Bartek Igielski How to improve small business online reputation management - ORM Guide Top 15 Web Development Frameworks In 2019 How to get more downloads for your Android App - Play Store Optimization Magento Influencers You Must Follow on Twitter Best Code Editors And IDEs For PHP Development Magento-Adobe Partnership to Revolutionize E-commerce Experience Displaying Products from a Specific Category in Magento: A Step-by-Step Guide "The Power of Magento, In My Opinion, Comes With Its Awesome Community of Smart People." -Interview With Tobias Hartmann Best Development Practices in Magento 2 - Expert Opinions Included Create a Static Block And Call It From .phtml File in Magento Thank You All For Making the First Magento Meetup Dubai A Success! Reasons Why WordPress is the Best CMS For Small Businesses in 2019 This is How to Create Attributes, Sets and Groups in Magento and Personalize Them! This Is How To Easily Fix Magento 2 Installation Errors What Is The Main Advantage Of Using Meta Description Tag In SEO? "It’s almost like you have to tame Magento" - Interview With Magento Front-End Developer, Ben Crook South Korea Show Dragon Using 5G & 3D Holographic Technology How to Build Cross-Platform Augmented Reality Apps with ARKit and ARCore "Magento Is A Really Complex Platform" - Interview With Magento Guru, Gabriel Guarino 5 Most Common Magento Myths Debunked! What's True & What's Not? 5 Must-Have Magento Extensions For Your Magento Store 8 Tips To Reduce Cart Abandonment Rates On Your Ecommerce Store How To Launch Your Ecommerce Store In A Day! Step-By-Step Guide On How To Transfer Bulk Products Between Categories In Magento The Ultimate Checklist To Amp Up Your Magento Store This Holiday Season! 17 Awesome Marketing Influencers To Follow in The New Year 2017 5 Reasons Why To Choose Professional Web Design Company Over Freelancing 9 Things You Should Need to Know About PHP 7 Can You Get A Website Developed In 3 Days? Is It Even Possible? Android or IOS: Important Features for Healthcare App Development A Glance at 5G - The Future of Technology How Custom Mobile App Development Benefits Your Real State Business in 2019 What is Staff Augmentation and How it Can Help Businesses Remotely Staff Augmentation VS Managed Services: What to Choose? How to Increase User Retention with Mobile App Onboarding How to Build a Progressive Web Application with React JS Under Low Budget Java vs. Kotlin: Which is the Better Option for Android App Development How To Make Magento Store Faster Without Touching Code How to Set a Budget for a Website? How Big Data and Business Intelligence Help to Improve Customer Retention What is Stadia and How it can Revolutionized Future of Gaming Twitter Global App Downloads Q2 2019 See Messenger, Facebook Top The List Is It the Right Time to Revamp Your Company’s Website? Is Your Website Communicating Your Brand? Let’s Find Out! est Game Engine for Android Game Development in 2019 The Holy Grail For Magento 2 Technology Stack Facebook Not To Launch Libra Until It Has Addressed Regulatory Concerns The Importance Of Storytelling On Your Company’s Website The Ultimate Drupal Prelaunch Checklist for Developers Mobile App Redesign Process: The Ultimate Guide What Technologies Are Needed To Build An E-Commerce Website? What's the Difference Between WordPress.org & WordPress.com AI Algorithm Can Now Solve Rubik’s Cube In Less Than a Second Why You Should Choose Magento 2 For Your Ecommerce Store How to Set Up RSS to to Email Newsletter in WordPress Google Stadia Likely To Be Beaten By Microsoft xCloud For Smartphone Gaming 11 Tips To Speed Up Drupal Website Performance 9 Best PHP Frameworks For Modern Web Developers in 2017 Corona SDK: A Perfect Framework For Cross Platform Mobile Game Development Advanced PHP Tips And Tricks That Can Make Developers Life Easier Google News Doesn’t Support The Standout Meta Tag and Editors’ Pick Any Longer Advantages Of Drupal Web Development That You Can't Ignore Everything You Need To Know About The Features In Drupal 8 Simple Steps for Creating Friendly URL’s with PHP & HTACCESS How To Protect Your Magento Stores Against Ransomware Attacks Looking For Website Design & Development Company? Read This First! Google No Longer Supports no-Index Directive in robots.txt Magento Community vs. Enterprise: Which Solution Best For Your Business LinkedIn Adding Three New Ways For Marketers To Achieve Advertising Goals Most Common Mistakes That Every Drupal Developer Should Avoid Pros And Cons Of Using Drupal For Large Ecommerce Store The Do’s and Don’ts About Ecommerce Fulfillment This is How Your Company Website Should Look Like in 2017 Top 7 PHP Security Blunders and What You Can Do About Them How Blockchain Technology is Altering the Social Media Ecosystem Top Ecommerce Trends That Every Merchant Should Follow In 2017 Top PHP Influencers You Should Follow In 2017 Why You Should Choose Cloud Hosting For Your Magento Store Why You Should Choose PHP Programming Language For Developing Website Why You Should Move From Magento 1 to Magento 2 in 2017 World’s Famous Website Designers and Their Portfolios 20 Questions to Ask Before Hiring Any Web Designing Company Google Updates Maverick: Its Search Ranking Algorithm Third Time in a Week 5 Things to Consider Before Choosing Any Web Development Company for the Drupal Development Best Books to Learn PHP Programming Best Development Practices In Magento For Building Attractive Store How Can You Find Best Magento Developers How to Secure your Ecommerce Site against Hacking Attempts The Top 20 Best Websites to Learn PHP Programming Top 12 Main Advantages of ASP.NET Framework Top 4 Must-Know ASP.NET Trends For 2017 Top 7 Chatbot Platform Tools To Build Chatbots For Your Business Top Killer SEO Tips to Best Optimize Your Magento Store Why You Should Choose Drupal Development Services To Build Business Website Why You Should Choose Drupal Over Joomla Why You Should Migrate From PHP 5 to PHP 7 in 2017 10 Minimalist but Spicy Web Design Ideas for Beginners in 2017 7 Things to Consider Before Hiring Developer For Your Magento Store Best Magento Development Blogs & Tutorial Websites To Follow In 2017 Build ASP.NET Web Pages using Razor Syntax How to Hire the Right PHP Developers Questions to ask from the PHP Development Company Some Main Things to Know About the Drupal Website Security Top 10 Features in ASP.NET 4.5 Top 10 Free & Premium Drupal 8 Themes For 2017 Top 15 Drupal Modules You Should Have In 2017 4 Best Online Places to Learn Code for Free How to Build a Budget Friendly Android App for Your Restaurant Business 5 PHP Security Measures to Implement Boosting Moodle Performance – Tips To Speed Up Your Moodle Website Compelling UX Design - Who is Doing it Right Education Web Design: 7 Elements that Influence Conversions How to Avoid Sending Spam Emails in Magento How To Install Drupal Commerce KickStart How To Setup Zend Framework 3 On Cloud Hosting Things to Consider Before Any Magento Big Data Migration Magento 2 Speed Optimization Guide and Reduce Server Response Time Why are HTML Templates the First Choice of Designers? Invested $1 Billion by Microsoft In OpenAI for Supercomputing Tech 9 Website Designing Tips For Beginners How to Make Shipping Easier with MageWorx Magento 2 Extensions Best Website Design Ideas in 2017 Development And Design Under The Same Roof With Magneto Development General Use Of Tokens In Drupal Fields Silicon Valley’s Tech Giants Unite to Make WiFi Connectivity Easier and Better How to do External Database Connection in Magento Most Popular Mobile App Building Platform and Tools 2019 How to set up a CDN (Amazon CloudFront) in Magento Learn how to Create a Magento Theme from Scratch Looming PHP 7 & Its Effect on WordPress Ridiculously Responsive Social Sharing Buttons In Drupal IT Outsourcing Pricing Models and Strategies 2019 Skills UI/UX Designers Should Have In Development 5G Network to be Launched by O2 in UK in October Some Unique Features Of PHP You Will Need To Use The Difference Between IDE And Code Editors The Evolution Of JavaScript In Recent Times Using Artificial Intelligence To Create Websites And Apps What Can You Do To Improve Your “Forgot Your Password?” Functionality? What Do You Think About PHP 7 And 7.1? What is DevOps? A guide as How DevOps Functions What Is Information Architecture And Why It Is Important To Your Website Creative And Easy Ways To Attract Users To Your Website DevOps Trends to Watch in 2017 How to Create an Azure Mobile App using PHP Marketing Strategies For Small Scale Businesses Mobile First And How It Affects Your Business Smart Ways To Get High-Quality Backlinks How to Use Artificial Intelligence to Solve Logistics Problems Some Most Important Strategies That Any Web Designer Should Notice Web Application Development Cost: Ultimate Guide Web Design Tactics to Help You When Needing Assistance Why Choose Agile Methodology for Mobile App Development Give 3D Parallax Effect to the 2D Images Using Depth Map Benefits of Using Mean Stack For Web Development Instant Games from Messenger to Main App being Shifted by Facebook Facebook ALGO Changes Marketers Should Know About Importance of User Experience in Online Conversations TikTok Owner ByteDance Announces to Make Smartphones Snapchat OR Instagram Which is the Big Thing? Google Divulges Handful of Defects in Apple’s iMessage app 10 Ways To Enhance User-experience of e-Commerce Shoppers 13 Reasons Why Ecommerce Lags Behind Brick And Mortar Top 13 .Net Core Features You Need to Know This week could see the unveiling of Hongmeng OS Google is closing its Trips App How the Augmented Analytics tools leverage Business Intelligence Indexing issues keep Google Search from Showing New Content Contribution of IT Sector in the Growth of Pakistan Top 10 Machine Learning Tools in 2019 Podcast Mobile App usage surges to 60% since January 2018 How Artificial Intelligence can Learn Human Behavior The Role of Facebook Libra in Cryptocurrency World Apple allegedly Boosts TV Outlay by $5 Billion How to Write a Business Plan for Mobile App Development How Deep Learning and Machine Learning are Different Google Rolls Out Its Search App ‘Google Go’ Top Social Media Marketing Tips to Revamp Your Marketing Strategy in 2019 Android 10 is the Official Name for Android Q Successful YouTube Campaigns Campaigns that Will Help Your Startups in 2019 SEO for Start-ups How to Improve Organic Search Ranking Instantly Ultimate Business Website Redesign Guide for Startups 20 Best Web Development Blog You Should Be Reading in 2025 How to Build Instagram B2B Marketing Campaign for Businesses Top 10 Business Intelligence Tools You Need for Your Startup Company 3 Mistakes in eCommerce That Will Slim Chances of Customer Retention 5 Ways Affiliate Marketing Can Boost Your Ecommerce Business 7 Hacks To Boost Your e-Commerce ROI 7 Mobile Ecommerce Sites With Excellent Navigation 7 Ways To Make The eCommerce Checkout Process More Attractive A Complete Guide To Franchise Marketing in The Digital World A Poor Website is Worse than Not Having One Customer Journey In E-commerce – Mapping The Maze E-commerce Business, Serving People in Different Modes Exploring The Possibilities of e-Commerce Security and Theft Handling Finicky Customers Without An-eye-for-an-eye Treatment in Dubai on 29th October Handy eCommerce Tools To Kickstart Online Sales Here’s How Social Media Affects SEO How Drop Shipping Can Speed Up Your e-Store Sales Ideas Behind Development of User-friendly eCommerce Website Image Search Technology - A Revolution in eCommerce Websites Mind Boggling Cart Glitches For e-Shoppers Explained Shopify vs Bigcommerce - The Promising eCommerce Platform Social Media Image Sizes/Dimensions for 2017 The Success Story of EBAY - An e-Commerce Giant With Humble Beginning Tips For Creating Posts on Every Major Social Media Platform Use of Local Marketing Trends To Flourish Ecommerce Business We Prefer User Experience Over Design, Here’s Why! How to Build a Balance between NoFollow and DoFollow Backlinks What Scares The Bejeezes Out Of Programmers? Why Hardware Startups Failure is More Common? Why Should One Choose WordPress Over Wix 5 Options For Migrating Applications To The Cloud Cloud Influencers To Follow On Twitter Mobile Application Development Costs Breakdown for Your Business App Generation Y vs Gen Z – Subtle Differences Between Today’s e-Commerce Consumers How Can Cloud Improve Your eCommerce Business Myths About Cloud – A Storm of Confusion The Do’s and Dont’s of User Experience Design in e-Commerce 15 Eye-opener Quotes on Artificial intelligence 20 Influencers From The World Of AI On Linkedin How To Master Your Email Marketing Campaign With Facebook 5 Tips to Make Sure Your WordPress Blog Has the Best Functionality The New AI-Driven Store Makes You Look Like a Shoplifter 10 Brands Converging AI Into Retail and e-Commerce 5 Best On-page SEO Practices to Boost Your Rankings! Jobs That Will Go Extinct After Artificial Intelligence Takes Over The Chatbot Evolution And Its Role In Conversational Commerce 10 Monstrous Lies About Artificial Intelligence Competitive Mobile Marketing Strategies Nailed By Brands Top E-Commerce Website Builder Options Reviewed For 2019 Crucial Mobile Marketing Mistakes that are Sinking your Ship Mobile Marketing Facts Challenging Marketers To Up Their Game! Transitioning from Managed Services to Staff Augmentation Mobile Marketing Tricks Of The Trade For Fashion Ecommerce Headcount vs FTE: Which Resource Management Model Is Better? The Science Of Making An App Go Viral Famous Quotes on Gamification to Inspire Marketers Staff Augmentation vs Managed Services Gamification and Its Applications – Presentations That Explain It All Top 10 Benefits of SAP ERP System for Business How Millennials And Post Millennials Are Aptly Suited For Gamification Proven Game Marketing Strategies For Better Conversion How to Take Advantage of Staff Augmentation in Software Development The Shocking Tales Of Data Breaches From The World Of Tech Best Practices For Call-To-Action Button Design To Enhance User-Experience Outsourcing Project Management: Some Pros and Cons Key Takeaways on the Biggest Marketing Fails of 2017 Common Technical SEO Mistakes You Need to Avoid 5 Reasons Ali Express Is Ideal For DropShipping Designers Are From Venus And Developers Are From Mars Siri Lands Apple In Hot Waters Once Again Popular Voice Search Assistants And Their Role In Ecommerce Exploring The Brighter Side Of Voice Search and Speech Enabled Commerce Visual and Voice Search Redefining Fashion e-Commerce The Creative Lifestyle of a Programmer Depicted in Everyday Items Magento Features that Transformed the e-Commerce Landscape Top 15 Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) Software for Enterprises The Consumer Gets Affected As Net Neutrality Breathes Its Last FTE Model Benefits Over Hour-Based System 5 Stress Management Tips for Digital Marketers What’s New In The World Of 5G For IOT Benefits of Staff Augmentation Services and How to Choose the Best One How To Get Featured In Google Answer Boxes Android Vs iOS – The Choice Of Mobile Application Development Platform How Business Intelligence Helps Manufacturing Companies How Internet of Things Present Challenges for Emerging Brands UX Design To Fit Into IOT Models Top Tips for An Effective Ecommerce Design for Better Conversions 5 Points to Consider in Every SEO Strategy Tips to Optimize Your Mobile Site for Search Engine How to Generate B2B Leads in 2019 How AI Can Transform Your Next Android Application How Marketing Automation Leverages Your Overall Business How Custom Mobile App Benefits Your Business How Social Media Helps with Lead Generation How Business Intelligence Can Improve Ecommerce Business Best Ecommerce Optimization Tips to Boost your Sales How To Make The Most Of CTA Button Web Design Mistakes to Avoid That Affect Website Conversion Rate Most Engaging Website Design Inspirations 2019 Amplify Your Store’s Success with Big Data How Custom Web Development Benefits your Business Benefits of Using WordPress to Power Your Company’s Website How Business Process Outsourcing is Advantageous for your Company Tips to Revamp Your Facebook Business Page What to Expect from Google Stadia On Its Launch Voice Technology Continues to Create an Uproar in Ecommerce Finest App UI Designs to Take Inspiration From Top 5 Ways to Generate Ad Revenue From Your Website AI Trends to Look for in 2019 And Beyond SEO Guide: Selecting the Best Keywords Top 3 Types of Web Hosting with Pros and Cons How to Make the Most of Social Proof for Your Ecommerce Sales Why Cloud Mobile Apps are on the Rise 5 Brilliant Holiday Marketing Tips to Drive Christmas and New Year Sale 5 Smartphone Trends that will Continue to Dominate in 2021 Different Industries that are Using Data Science Analytics An Overview of Current Agile Trends & Practices A Comprehensive Overview of Power Apps Best Practices Data Visualization: Power BI Trends & Practices Wearable Apps:/span> An Overview of a New App Ecosystem A Complete Overview of Rust Programming Language Everything you should know about ReactJS Page Speed Optimization: Trends & Standards All You Need to Know aboutReact Native & Flutter Apps Git Branching Model: Types, Pros & Cons Role of Business Analyst in an IT Company Why is Vue.js a popular framework? All You Should Know About Bootstrap How to Build an E-Prescription Software A Detailed Overview of Personal Branding Augmented Reality and its Applications Role Of AI and ML in SQA Why Push Notification are Important Strategies to Skyrocket Your PPC Campaign Today Online Gaming Trends to Follow in 2020 and Beyond Influencer Marketing Tips to Make Your Startup Win Top Reasons Why Apps Fail & How to Shun Them Effective Marketing Ideas for Your Startup Online with Zero Budget How Chatbots Can Help Serve Your Ecommerce Business 5 Tools Every E-Commerce Business Should Consider 9 Tips for Promoting a Product Through Social Media Some Popular Mobile App Development Trends For 2020 5G Ecosystem with Mobile App Development 5 Ways to Speed Up Your E commerce Website 7 Points to Consider on Ecommerce Web Development Role of AI and Robots in Health Sector Best Ecommerce Platform for Dropshipping Business in 2020 Uses of AI in the Health Sector Top 7 7 SEO Tools to Support Your Website Ranking How Shopify is Beneficial for Your Business 10 WooCommerce Plugins to Go For in 2020 Best Python Libraries for Machine Learning Basic SEO Tips to Rank Your Content on Top Pros of Using Xamarin with Cross-Platform App Development The 6 Principles of Great Content </span Microsoft Edge or Chrome in Disguise? AI Can Help Us Fight With The Pandemic Types of Virtualization in Cloud Computing How to Safeguard Your Cloud Security From Next Cyber-attack Top 6 Python Libraries for Machine Learning Making Work-from-Home Effective during COVID-19 Pandemic Why You Should Consider DIY Website Builders How Voice-Based Search Will Impact SEO 7 Common Bloopers That Could Ruin Your PPC Campaign Top 15 Digital Investment Apps for Small Business Owners Top 8 Facebook Ad Hacks to Reduce Costs and Increase Conversions Video Marketing Trends to Follow in 2020 Deployment of Azure IoT Edge modules from the Azure Portal Shopify vs Woo Commerce: Which one should you go for? Instagram Trends to Watch for in 2020 5 Python Web Development Frameworks For 2020 Azure Integration and API Management What is AWS – Snowball? 5 SEO Hacks for Small Businesses in 2020 What is Facebook Pixel: How to Optimize Social Media Campaign What is EC2? And How Is It Beneficial? Five Ways to Develop a Cloud-Ready Application Architecture Google Cloud vs IBM Cloud: Which One to Go for? Data Staging Issues in Cloud Computing Secure Data Management Within and Across Data Centers Keras vs Pytorch: Which Framework Is Better for You? Best App Development Frameworks in 2020 Legacy and Privacy Issues in Cloud Computing Load Balancing on Different Servers in Cloud Computing Adobe brings Illustrator to to iPad and Fresco to iPhone Major API Update: Facebook Messenger Incorporates Instagram Direct How to Rank Your Business on Google How to Use Hashtags for Business Role of Containerization and Its Impact on Secure Cloud Computing Instagram Marketing in 2020 Things to know: MVC & Web API Frameworks Support for Users of Cross-Platform & Container in Microsoft ASP.net 4 Essential Success Criteria for New Mobile Product Development Little-Known Facts about AI in Online Lending and their Significance Successful Tips for Mobile App Development Best Practices for Cybersecurity Patch Management How Good Design Can Make Your Website Stand Out Instagram Features You Didn't Know Existed Ways to Get Your Online Store Making Money Fast How to Optimize Facebook Business Page Best Framework for Android App Development in 2022 Tips to Protect Your Website from Hackers How to Block Pop-up Ads on Android Devices Best Tools And Resources For Startups - A Complete Guide 5 Hacks to Enhance an iOS App 8 Signs your Website Needs a Redesign 7 Best Productivity Apps For 2022 How to Make an App Like Craigslist in 2022 A Guide to Starting IT Service Business Everything you Need to Know about Google’s Helpful Content Update Useful Mobile App Development Guidelines for Startups Top AI Apps for E-commerce Businesses Best Automation Testing Tools You Need Mapping the Typical Stages of a Consumer Journey in E-Commerce Optimize Cloud Costs: Unleash the Power of Analysis, Rightsizing, and Reservations Cloud Benefits for Business – Why Cloud Is Good for Reducing Costs, Collaboration and Flexibility for Building a Strong Culture Top Cloud Services – Comparing IaaS, PaaS, and SaaS features with AWS, Azure, and GCP Cloud Migration Guide: Step-by-Step Process to Seamlessly Shift Workloads to the Cloud Cloud Computing Security Best Practices and Strategies in 2025 Cloud-Based Disaster Recovery: Automated Failovers and Cost Benefits of DRaaS Public Cloud vs Private Cloud vs Hybrid Cloud: Comparing the Use Cases Unlocking the Cloud: Expert Guidance for Architecture, Implementation and Data Migration Predictive Cloud Maintenance: Monitoring, Updates, and Analytics for Maximum Uptime Optimizing Last-Mile Delivery for E-Commerce Fulfillment: Top 4 Keys for Customer Satisfaction How to Choose the Right Software Development Company in Dubai Generative AI in Fintech: Top 5 Use Cases and Real-World Examples 7 Ways Virtual Reality Will Change Our Lives Cloud Consulting: A Strategic Partner for Successful Cloud Adoption Python Software Development Services for Every Business DevOps Best Practices in Software Development 10 Best DevOps Practices for Building a Strong Culture Navigating Cloud Cost Optimization: Top 5 Best Practices and Strategies Top 8 Web Designs Ideas for 2023 10 Key Factors to Consider as You Hire Mobile App Developers How Digital Marketing Helps in Business Growth Best Cloud Migration Strategies for Enterprise What is the Role of PPC in Business Growth? How ChatGPT and BARD Can Help You Grow Your Business 10 Reasons Why Your Business Needs SEO 10 Best Mobile Apps Ideas for Entrepreneurs 2023 Why Should Startups Consider Outsourcing DevOps as a Service? Google Rolled out March 2023 Core Update What are the 8 Types of Digital Marketing? 10 Reasons Why Small Businesses Need a Mobile App What are the Best Content Marketing Strategies in 2023? 10 Reasons to Migrate to Cloud in 2025 10 Best Practices for Performance Marketers Industry-Leading Graphic Design Apps for Designers Why Should You Hire Digital Marketing Agency Over a Freelancer? 10 Best Practices of IT Resource Management How Important Are Core Web Vitals for Your Site Importance of Google My Business for Local SEO How to Build Your Social Media Marketing Strategy for Your Small Business? How Business Intelligence Works for Small Companies? How to Choose Right Digital Marketing Agency for Your Small Business? 10 Best AI Tools For Web Development 10 Digital Marketing Strategies to Boost Your Ecommerce Business Top 10 Tools for Digital Marketing Step-by-Step Guide for Successful Website Migration to Cloud 2025 Guide to Native App Development Why Do You Need Digital Marketing Services For your Brand In 2023 Leveraging Strategies and Best Practices to Transform Businesses through DevOps Consulting Services 10 Common SEO Optimization Issues And Solutions What Is PPC? A Beginner’s Guide to Pay-Per-Click Marketing Common Issues Faced by Developers While Developing an iOS App How to Build a Social Media Marketing Strategy In 2023 Monetizing Your White Label Local SEO Business: Strategies for Success Advantages of Using AI in Mobile App Development Mastering Success: Unlocking the Power of PPC Campaign Management Services How to Use Azure Cloud App Security to Grow Your Business Factors to Evaluate When Choosing DevOps Services for Your Business How to Stay on Top of Social Media Trends Discovering the Benefits of AWS Service: Why It’s the Right Choice for Your Business Exploring the Basics: What is Lead Generation in Digital Marketing Magic Behind Laravel: Understanding the Core Concepts in Web Development 6 Tips to Boost Your Instagram Engagement 6 Cloud Computing Challenges That Businesses Need to Be Aware of What You Need to Know About Test Automation in DevOps How to Use AI to Enhance Your SEO Strategies? How to Bring an App Idea to Life – An Illustrative Guide Agile Software Development: What Is It and Its Principles? Everything You Need to Know About Chatbot Marketing Role of UI/UX in E-Commerce Web Development Top DevOps Monitoring Tools to Streamline Operations Best PPC Trends You Must Adopt in 2023 How to Choose the Right Mobile Platform for Your Mobile App Navigating Cloud Cost Optimization: Top 5 Best Practices and Strategies How Content Marketing Helps Generate B2B Leads A Step-by-Step Guide Displaying Products from a Specific Category in Magento: How VR Is Influencing Mobile App 11 Advantages of Digital Marketing For Your Business 20 Best Web Development Blog You Should Be Reading in 2019 How to Configure Multiple Stores in Magento 2 How Chatbots Can Help Serve Your Ecommerce Business Unlocking the Cloud: Learning Data Migration The Future is Cloud: What Should We Expect in 2025? Co-Managed IT Services: Bridging the Gap Between In-House IT Teams and External Expertise FIFA 2034: Saudi Arabia's Digital Technology In the Spotlight What is Cloud Infrastructure Management? Top 5 Strategies to Manage Efficiently Application Modernization Strategies: 5 Best Practices Explained Application Modernization Strategies: 5Best Practices Explained Fully Managed vs. Co-Managed IT Services: How to Choose the Right Fit for Your Business Needs Artificial Intelligence in Application Modernization: Key Benefits and Real-World Applications Step-by Step Guide to Cloud Migration Architecture and App Modernization Boost Growth with Data Analytics for SMBs in 2025 Implementing Compliance Strategies in SMEs: A Guide for Compliance Management Firms in 2025 IT Help Desk Support Ticketing System in 2025 and Beyond: A Complete Guide Enhance Managed IT Services for Healthcare Industry in 2025 User Access Management in Saudi Arabia, UAE and Beyond: A Complete Guide Cloud Managed Services: Driving Saudi Arabia's Vision 2030 Digital Transformation What is Incident Management: Your Guide to Top Tools, Tips, and Best Practices Maximizing Efficiency with Business Process Integration in 2025 What is Enterprise Software Development? A Detailed Guide Building a Greener Future with Sustainable Software Development in 2025 Fintech App Development: A Step-by-Step Guide for 2025 DevOps As a Service: 5 Key Trends and Everything to Watch in 2025 Top 7 Cloud Consulting Companies: Comparison 2025 What Are Managed Cloud Services? A Guide for Saudi Arabians Web and Mobile App Development in Dubai: The Ultimate Guide for 2025 Web and Mobile App Development in Abu Dhabi - Complete Guide 2025 Guide on How to Build a CMS in a Short Time in 2025 Best Cross-Platform App Framework in 2025 11 Game-Changing Software Development Trends for 2025 What is Cloud Application Development? A Guide to Scalable Cloud Apps in 2025 Data Management Solutions for Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises Cybersecurity Solutions for Healthcare: Opportunities for Medical Clinics in UAE HIPAA-Compliant Cloud Storage for Healthcare Professionals in the USA Trends in the E-commerce Software Industry in the Middle East Healthcare Cloud Migration in UAE: Strategy for a Smooth Transition Healthcare IT support services in Dubai - UAE Medical Practice IT Support in the USA: What You Need to Know Patient Portal Software Development Guide: Types, Features & Cost in 2025 How Much Does Epic Cost in 2025 in Europe Implementing a Robust Revenue Cycle Management System Benefits, Pitfalls, and Pro Tips for Healthcare Outsourcing Services in UAE

business: Business Intelligence Analyst | Business Consultant Business Intelligence Solutions | Business Solutions What is Business Intelligence | Business Intelligence Business Intelligence Consultant | Business Analyst Digital Marketing | Digital Marketing Consultant SEO Services | Digital Marketing Firm | PPC Services Email Marketing Service | Social Media Marketing Digital Marketing Specialist | Content Marketing At Arpatech, we help you unleash the power of data with our pioneering approach, allowing you to reveal hidden insights and make data-driven decisions that fuel innovation and drive your business towards exceptional growth. Our business intelligence and analytics services can help you make better decisions about resource allocation and startup planning. At Arpatech, we help you unleash the power of data with our pioneering approach, allowing you to reveal hidden insights and make data-driven decisions that fuel innovation and drive your business towards exceptional growth. Everything You Need to Know about BI. Unlock the Secrets Hidden in Your Data Business Intelligence and Analytics Services Unlock the Secrets Hidden in Your Data Data Insights: Essential Business Intelligence Components At Arpatech, we help you unleash the power of data with our pioneering approach, allowing you to reveal hidden insights and make data-driven decisions that fuel innovation and drive your business toward exceptional growth. At Arpatech, we help you unleash the power of data with our pioneering approach, allowing you to reveal hidden insights and make data-driven decisions that fuel innovation and drive your business towards exceptional growth. Our business intelligence and analytics services can help you make better decisions about resource allocation and startup planning. startup planning, At Arpatech, we help you unleash the power of data with our pioneering approach, allowing you to reveal hidden insights and make data-driven decisions that fuel innovation and drive your business towards exceptional growth. Our business intelligence and analytics services can help you make better decisions about resource allocation and startup planning. At Arpatech, we help you unleash the power of data with our pioneering approach, allowing you to reveal hidden insights and make data-driven decisions that fuel innovation and drive your business towards exceptional growth. Our business intelligence and analytics services can help you make better decisions about resource allocation and startup planning. outsourcing-process At Arpatech, we help you unleash the power of data with our pioneering approach, allowing you to reveal hidden insights and make data-driven decisions that fuel innovation and drive your business towards exceptional growth. Our business intelligence and analytics services can help you make better decisions about resource allocation and startup planning. resource-allocation At Arpatech, we help you unleash the power of data with our pioneering approach, allowing you to reveal hidden insights and make data-driven decisions that fuel innovation and drive your business towards exceptional growth. Our business intelligence and analytics services can help you make better decisions about resource-allocation and startup planning.

career: We offer a mix of growth prospects, advanced learning, fair play, and an amazing work culture. with the subject line including the job title. To learn more about what goes on at our office, visit We at Arpatech offer a mix of growth prospects, advance learning, fair play and amazing work culture. with the subject of job title To know more about Arpatech visit Do you have what it takes to make a difference in the world? Are you looking for a career that will challenge you to use your skills to make a real impact? If so, you may have a spark inside of you waiting to be ignited. Do you have a passion for making a difference in the world? Are you looking for a career that will challenge you and allow you to use your skills to make a real impact? If so, then you may have a spark inside of you that is waiting to be ignited. We are committed to providing our employees with the resources and opportunities needed to thrive in their chosen fields. From cutting-edge projects to collaborative teams, we ensure that your skills are challenged and honed every step of the way. Our dynamic and innovative recruitment looks like this. We value diversity and commit to a collaborative and inclusive hiring process that will bring out the best in you. Join our team and be part of a dynamic and innovative community that values diversity and inclusion. We are committed to a collaborative and inclusive hiring process that will bring out the best in you. At Arpatech, we offer competitive salaries, comprehensive benefits, and professional development opportunities. We are dedicated to investing in our employees and committed to helping you achieve your full potential. If you seek a workplace where you can make a meaningful impact, take part in innovative projects, and be a part of an environment that prioritizes your well-being, Arpatech is the ideal choice for you. Work with Us and Experience the We offer competitive salaries and benefits, as well as opportunities for professional development. We believe in investing in our employees, and we are committed to helping you reach your full potential. If you're looking for a place where you can make a real impact, be part of innovative projects, and excel in an environment that prioritizes your well-being, then Arpatech is the perfect place for you. We at Arpatech offer a mix of growth prospects, advanced learning, fair play, and an amazing work culture. Apply at careers@arpatech.com To learn more about Life at Arpatech, visit We at Arpatech offer a mix of growth prospects, advanced learning, fair play, and an amazing work culture. Apply at We at Arpatech offer a mix of growth prospects, advanced learning, fair play, and an amazing work culture. If you're looking for a place where you can make a real impact, be part of innovative projects, and excel in an environment that prioritizes your well-being, than Arpatech is the perfect place for you. *Note that benefits may differ according to your specific department and location. *Note that benefits may differ according to your specific department and location.123 *Note: Benefits may differ according to your specific department and location.

case: A leading global IT services and procurement company facilitates clients with their IT needs and procurement processes worldwide. The company operates in a dynamic and competitive environment, constantly innovating to meet client challenges and build lasting relationships. The company continues to face a fair share of challenges, but it is capable of finding solutions by leveraging its expert workforce, which has spread across the globe. Here are a few of them. Arpatech team began working with different clouds as part of its research efforts. After experimenting with prototypes, the Arpatech team determined that AWS (Amazon Web Service) cloud provided the reliability and scalability that they needed to support Forrun’s countrywide distributed, high-traffic courier platform The Arpatech team uses Amazon VPC (Virtual Private Cloud), Amazon EC2 (Elastic Compute Cloud), Amazon ELB (Elastic Load Balancing), and Amazon ASG (Auto-Scaling Groups). AWS auto-scaling group scales up the infrastructure and application automatically in peak times and scales down when there is no such load on the servers, so there is no cost of extra compute resources. This is the advantage of AWS Auto-Scaling. Arpatech team created two ASGs (Auto-Scaling Groups), one for Front-end site traffic and second for Database processing. In this way, both tiers can scale independently based on their individual loads. For this, Arpatech team used two Elastic Load Balancers (ELB). AWS also makes it easy to deploy frequently for new enhancements ot hotfixes. There is no down-time thanks to AWS Rolling Deployment. A rolling deployment updates an application on a stack's online application server instances in multiple phases. With each phase, AWS updates a subset of the online instances and verifies that the update is successful before starting the next phase. If AWS encounters problems, the instances that are still running the old app version can continue As they say, it takes two to tango! Just tell us your specific needs and we will come up with an innovative solution that will not only meet your objectives but will also help you set apart from your competitors. Windows Patching with Latest Release Windows Updates The client operates an Azure Virtual Desktop (AVD) environment for their workforce, relying on Azure Automation for patch management. Due to Azure Automation's lack of support for patching Azure Virtual Desktop (AVD), our client needed an alternative solution for patch automation in their AVD environment. We opted for a third-party tool capable of installing patches that are marked as ready to install on the machines, effectively meeting the client's requirements. Paving the Path for a Greener Future with the Adoption of Incentivized A California-based client with a mission to promote eco-friendly choices seeks to fundamentally change the way people think about mobility and environmental impact. The client is carving a niche for a greener future by empowering end-users, offering insightful information, and rewarding wise decisions. Challenges Difficulty in tracking user behavior and incentivize eco-friendly practices due to a lack of effective implementation. A lack of proper monitoring and inducements to encourage people to make sustainable choices. A need for monitoring and incentivizing tools to inspire people to contribute to a cleaner environment. Back Office Team at an International Non-Profit Organization We are the backbone of an international non-profit organization’s operational excellence – namely the Back Office Team. As stewards of efficiency and guardians of seamless processes, we ensure that every technical query and task is effectively managed to support the mission and vision of the organization. Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery Strategy for a A leading global Sports & Entertainment technology services provider needed a robust Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery (BCDR) strategy for a major global football event. The strategy required integration of both Azure cloud and on-premises workloads to ensure high availability and rapid recovery in the event of a disaster. The solution implemented used a pilot light approach, leveraging Azure DevOps pipelines for DR activation, and Terraform for provisioning stateless compute resources. Automating Azure Virtual Desktops (AVD) Windows Patching with Latest Release Windows Updates A California-based client with a mission to promote eco-friendly choices seeks to fundamentally change the way people think about mobility and environmental impact. The client is carving a niche for a greener future by empowering end-users, offering insightful information, and rewarding wise decisions. Introduction The client operates an Azure Virtual Desktop (AVD) environment for their workforce, relying on Azure Automation for patch management. Due to Azure Automation's lack of support for patching Azure Virtual Desktop (AVD), our client needed an alternative solution for patch automation in their AVD environment. We opted for a third-party tool capable of installing patches that are marked as ready to install on the machines, effectively meeting the client's requirements. The adoption of cloud services has become essential for organizations seeking to stay competitive and agile. However, navigating the complex landscape of cloud solutions presents significant challenges for both customers and vendors. The case study focuses on a global IT solutions provider leveraging a cutting-edge customer journey integration platform aimed at streamlining the procurement and management of cloud services. Problem Statement The proliferation of cloud services has led to fragmented procurement processes and disparate management systems, causing inefficiencies and complexities for customers. Traditional approaches lack integration, resulting in longer time-to-market for vendors and cumbersome experiences for customers Back Office Team at an International We are the backbone of an international non-profit organization’s operational excellence – namely the Back Office Team. As stewards of efficiency and guardians of seamless processes, we ensure that every technical query and task is effectively managed to support the mission and vision of the organization. The adoption of cloud services has become essential for organizations seeking to stay competitive and agile. However, navigating the complex landscape of cloud solutions presents significant challenges for both customers and vendors. The case study focuses on a global IT solutions provider leveraging a cutting-edge customer journey integration platform aimed at streamlining the procurement and management of cloud services. Problem Statement The proliferation of cloud services has led to fragmented procurement processes and disparate management systems, causing inefficiencies and complexities for customers. Traditional approaches lack integration, resulting in longer time-to-market for vendors and cumbersome experiences for customers The adoption of cloud services has become essential for organizations seeking to stay competitive and agile. However, navigating the complex landscape of cloud solutions presents significant challenges for both customers and vendors. The case study focuses on a global IT solutions provider leveraging a cutting-edge customer journey integration platform aimed at streamlining the procurement and management of cloud services. Problem Statement The proliferation of cloud services has led to fragmented procurement processes and disparate management systems, causing inefficiencies and complexities for customers. Traditional approaches lack integration, resulting in longer time-to-market for vendors and cumbersome experiences for customers The adoption of cloud services has become essential for organizations seeking to stay competitive and agile. However, navigating the complex landscape of cloud solutions presents significant challenges for both customers and vendors. The case study focuses on a global IT solutions provider leveraging a cutting-edge customer journey integration platform aimed at streamlining the procurement and management of cloud services. Problem Statement The proliferation of cloud services has led to fragmented procurement processes and disparate management systems, causing inefficiencies and complexities for customers. Traditional approaches lack integration, resulting in longer time-to-market for vendors and cumbersome experiences for customers The adoption of cloud services has become essential for organizations seeking to stay competitive and agile. However, navigating the complex landscape of cloud solutions presents significant challenges for both customers and vendors. The case study focuses on a global IT solutions provider leveraging a cutting-edge customer journey integration platform aimed at streamlining the procurement and management of cloud services. Problem Statement The proliferation of cloud services has led to fragmented procurement processes and disparate management systems, causing inefficiencies and complexities for customers. Traditional approaches lack integration, resulting in longer time-to-market for vendors and cumbersome experiences for customers The adoption of cloud services has become essential for organizations seeking to stay competitive and agile. However, navigating the complex landscape of cloud solutions presents significant challenges for both customers and vendors. The case study focuses on a global IT solutions provider leveraging a cutting-edge customer journey integration platform aimed at streamlining the procurement and management of cloud services. Problem Statement The proliferation of cloud services has led to fragmented procurement processes and disparate management systems, causing inefficiencies and complexities for customers. Traditional approaches lack integration, resulting in longer time-to-market for vendors and cumbersome experiences for customers The adoption of cloud services has become essential for organizations seeking to stay competitive and agile. However, navigating the complex landscape of cloud solutions presents significant challenges for both customers and vendors. The case study focuses on a global IT solutions provider leveraging a cutting-edge customer journey integration platform aimed at streamlining the procurement and management of cloud services. Problem Statement The proliferation of cloud services has led to fragmented procurement processes and disparate management systems, causing inefficiencies and complexities for customers. Traditional approaches lack integration, resulting in longer time-to-market for vendors and cumbersome experiences for customers The adoption of cloud services has become essential for organizations seeking to stay competitive and agile. However, navigating the complex landscape of cloud solutions presents significant challenges for both customers and vendors. The case study focuses on a global IT solutions provider leveraging a cutting-edge customer journey integration platform aimed at streamlining the procurement and management of cloud services. Problem Statement The proliferation of cloud services has led to fragmented procurement processes and disparate management systems, causing inefficiencies and complexities for customers. Traditional approaches lack integration, resulting in longer time-to-market for vendors and cumbersome experiences for customers The adoption of cloud services has become essential for organizations seeking to stay competitive and agile. However, navigating the complex landscape of cloud solutions presents significant challenges for both customers and vendors. The case study focuses on a global IT solutions provider leveraging a cutting-edge customer journey integration platform aimed at streamlining the procurement and management of cloud services. Problem Statement The proliferation of cloud services has led to fragmented procurement processes and disparate management systems, causing inefficiencies and complexities for customers. Traditional approaches lack integration, resulting in longer time-to-market for vendors and cumbersome experiences for customers Leveraging RKE to Normalize Data from Over 30,000 A large manufacturing enterprise required an efficient edge computing solution to handle the vast amounts of data produced by over 30,000 OT devices deployed at sports stadiums. The data collected needed to be ingested and normalized at the edge to minimize latency and reduce reliance on cloud processing. Arpatech implemented Rancher Kubernetes Engine (RKE) for edge computing to streamline data ingestion, normalization, and real-time analysis. In today’s ever-evolving technological landscape, a Fortune 1000 company has established itself as a reliable solutions provider, catering to a variety of organizations. The department responsible for renewing software licenses faces a challenging task due to the significant emphasis on hardware and software solutions. They have encountered difficulties with manual procedures, such as managing subscribers on Excel sheets, as they lacked an automated method. This time-consuming approach has resulted in substantial time and effort investments, limiting their bandwidth to effectively engage with clients. Systems on Edge Nodes During the FIFA Event Arpatech faced a significant challenge while monitoring the reachability and status of over 40,000 Operational Technology (OT) systems at each stadium during the FIFA event. Before implementing a solution, the existing data pipeline, consisting of multiple hops, delayed the identification of OT connectivity issues, often requiring several hours to pinpoint the source of failure. Arpatech addressed this issue by developing a an agent capable of direct endpoint probing & reporting using the Azure Application Insights SDK. Scalable Infrastructure & Digital Twin Management for a Global Football Event in Qatar Using Microsoft Azure and Terraform For a global football event in Qatar, being a subcontractor for Cloud Services, Arpatech’s responsibility was to deliver a reliable, scalable, and cost-efficient cloud infrastructure that could support high demand. The solution utilized Microsoft Azure, Terraform, and Kubernetes, alongside JCIs proprietary comprehensive digital twin system that enabled real-time monitoring and control of the stadium environment, ensuring seamless operations throughout the tournament. In today's rapidly evolving business landscape, organizations are constantly pursuing improved output, efficient processes, and enhanced collaboration. A Fortune 1000 company, the top provider of enterprise solutions, started an ambitious quest to change its strategy after realizing the need for a more effective system to handle engagements with client organizations. This effort has resulted in the company’s groundbreaking project, a comprehensive platform created to revolutionize the workplace engagement process. The company continues to face a fair share of challenges, but it is capable of finding solutions by leveraging its expert workforce, which has spread cross the globe. Here are a few of them. Global IT Procurement and Service Management Company Logistics plays a crucial role in the success of businesses across various industries. It involves the coordination and management of goods, services, and information from point of origin to consumption. This case study focuses on a logistics company which faced challenges in its daily operations, such as rider management to drive accuracy, efficiency and seamless operations to support its e-commerce and q-commerce clients. Leveraging RKE to Normalize Data from Over Seamless Integration of Traditional FIAT and Our web application allows users to successfully perform and display transactions to and from traditional FIAT bank accounts for customers, suppliers, and staff using a global financial technology company as a gateway, connecting to the company's crypto wallets. The adoption of cloud services has become essential for organizations seeking to stay competitive and agile. However, navigating the complex landscape of cloud solutions presents significant challenges for both customers and vendors. The case study focuses on a global IT solutions provider leveraging a cutting-edge customer journey integration platform aimed at streamlining the procurement and management of cloud services. Problem Statement The proliferation of cloud services has led to fragmented procurement processes and disparate management systems, causing inefficiencies and complexities for customers. Traditional approaches lack integration, resulting in longer time-to-market for vendors and cumbersome experiences for customers The adoption of cloud services has become essential for organizations seeking to stay competitive and agile. However, navigating the complex landscape of cloud solutions presents significant challenges for both customers and vendors. The case study focuses on a global IT solutions provider leveraging a cutting-edge customer journey integration platform aimed at streamlining the procurement and management of cloud services. Problem Statement The proliferation of cloud services has led to fragmented procurement processes and disparate management systems, causing inefficiencies and complexities for customers. Traditional approaches lack integration, resulting in longer time-to-market for vendors and cumbersome experiences for customers We are the backbone of an international non-profit organization’s operational excellence – namely the Back Office Team. As stewards of efficiency and guardians of seamless processes, we ensure that every technical query and task is effectively managed to support the mission and vision of the organization. The Challenge: Keeping the Organization Running Smoothly The organization’s frontline teams are at the forefront of tackling environmental challenges globally. However, their effectiveness hinges on a seamless and efficient back-office operation. The organization fulfills this critical role by handling essential tasks that keep the organization running smoothly. A California-based client with a mission to promote eco-friendly choices seeks to fundamentally change the way people think about mobility and environmental impact. The client is carving a niche for a greener future by empowering end-users, offering insightful information, and rewarding wise decisions. Challenges A California-based client with a mission to promote eco-friendly choices seeks to fundamentally change the way people think about mobility and environmental impact. The client is carving a niche for a greener future by empowering end-users, offering insightful information, and rewarding wise decisions. Challenges A California-based client with a mission to promote eco-friendly choices seeks to fundamentally change the way people think about mobility and environmental impact. The client is carving a niche for a greener future by empowering end-users, offering insightful information, and rewarding wise decisions. Challenges A California-based client with a mission to promote eco-friendly choices seeks to fundamentally change the way people think about mobility and environmental impact. The client is carving a niche for a greener future by empowering end-users, offering insightful information, and rewarding wise decisions. A California-based client with a mission to promote eco-friendly choices seeks to fundamentally change the way people think about mobility and environmental impact. The client is carving a niche for a greener future by empowering end-users, offering insightful information, and rewarding wise decisions. Challenges Difficulty in tracking user behavior and incentivize eco-friendly practices due to a lack of effective implementation. A lack of proper monitoring and inducements to encourage people to make sustainable choices. A need for monitoring and incentivizing tools to inspire people to contribute to a cleaner environment. Implementing a Monitoring Framework Using OpenTelemetry & Azure Application Insights for an Environmental A leading environmental management organization in the Middle East required a comprehensive monitoring framework to gain insights into their on-premises and Azure infrastructure. The objective was to collect and analyze key metrics and logs from the systems using a unified solution. To achieve this, Arpatech implemented an OpenTelemetry-based monitoring framework integrated with Azure Application Insights. Implementing a Monitoring Framework Using OpenTelemetry & Azure Application Insights foran Implementing a Monitoring Framework Using OpenTelemetry & Azure Application Insights foran Environmental An App to Ensure Eco-Friendly Driving and Environment Awareness During Driving This is a free mobile app that helps you understand and reduce the environmental impact of your driving. By connecting to your car, it shows how your driving habits affect the planet & offers simple ways to lessen that impact. Since its launch in 2021, This app has been dedicated to promoting eco-friendly driving & raising environmental awareness. Seamless Data Integration with A Blockchain-backed Data Engine: A Case Study E-commerce sellers on platforms like Amazon, eBay, and Shopify often face challenges in analyzing sales, valuing inventory, and securing financing due to fragmented data, currency discrepancies, and manual processes. An automated database was developed to address these issues, providing seamless data integration, advanced analytics, and blockchain-backed transparency. E-commerce sellers on platforms like Amazon, eBay, and Shopify often face challenges in analyzing sales, valuing inventory, and securing financing due to fragmented data, currency discrepancies, and manual processes. An automated database was developed to address these issues, providing seamless data integration, advanced analytics, and blockchain-backed transparency. An Electric Vehicle Service App for Accessibility & Higher Functionality In today's rapidly evolving electric vehicle (EV) industry, the need for seamless management of EV services and infrastructure has never been greater. As more customers embrace EVs for their efficiency and sustainability, they face a series of challenges. From managing charging stations and subscriptions to tracking energy consumption, navigating these complexities often leads to inefficiencies and sub-optimal experiences. To address these hurdles, this services app introduces a groundbreaking platform designed to streamline and enhance the entire EV ecosystem from charging management to subscription tracking. A Case Study on Scaling Website Traffic for As a rapidly growing e-commerce logistics company, the company offers end-to-end logistics and courier services across the country. With hundreds of riders, facility centers, and hubs, they have evolved from a local logistics provider to a trusted partner for businesses nationwide. By combining cutting-edge technology with operational excellence, they ensure businesses can scale efficiently, focusing on reliability and timely delivery. Success Story of Website Traffic Growth of an Online Pharmacy A leading online pharmacy in Pakistan partnered with Arpatech to overcome challenges in driving website traffic, creating awareness, and competing in the e-commerce pharmacy sector. Through a customized digital marketing strategy, we achieved remarkable results, including a 189% increase in website traffic and a 35% boost in sales. A premium online pharmacy in Pakistan offers a hassle-free way to order quality medicines & health products online. With a unique collaboration with a diagnostic lab for homebased lab test services, they aimed to establish a stronger brand presence in the market. Revitalizing Documentary Producing Channel’s Online Presence A Pakistani documentary film channel on YouTube, that produces documentary films on art, history, culture, war, sports, health, and social issues. Established in December 2021, This channel is a brainchild of a large production studio E-commerce sellers on platforms like Amazon, eBay, and Shopify often face challenges in analyzing sales, valuing inventory, and securing financing due to fragmented data, currency discrepancies, and manual processes. An automated database was developed to address these issues, providing seamless data integration, advanced analytics, and blockchain-backed transparency.

challenge: One major challenge faced by the company is currency fluctuation, which can significantly impact hardware procurement costs and overall client budgets. To address this, the company offers multiple solutions, including: This solution allows clients to lock in pricing by pre-paying for their orders. This eliminates the risk of cost fluctuations due to currency changes, ensuring project predictability and budget control for clients. By convincing all channel partners and customers to conduct all their transactions in US dollars, the factor of local currency fluctuation can be eliminated. This online procurement platform provides clients with access to an extensive catalog and helps raise quotes. In countries experiencing frequent currency fluctuations, customers are provided with specific items with zero prices to generate a quote from a catalog. Local resellers provide quotes with estimated hedged prices valid for about 30 days. Another significant challenge in the IT industry is supply chain disruptions, leading to material shortages & production delays. The company tackles this challenge through: The company meticulously analyzes each client's specific requirements and identifies potential material shortages based on industry trends and market insights. This is achieved through close coordination and the cultivation of relationships with various I.T. vendors. By anticipating potential shortages, the company is able to inform clients, allowing them to place pre-orders and secure their necessary IT equipment before scarcity impacts project timelines. The company offers additional services like pre-ordering and stockholding of customers’ IT hardware for a fee. This ensures clients have the necessary hardware readily available, minimizing the impact of unexpected shortages. We developed a comprehensive solution to overcome the limitations and address the client's patch management requirements: A Python script was developed to operate on a single virtual machine within the AVD environment. This script accesses the Windows Update Catalog to download the latest patches as soon as they are released by Microsoft. The downloaded patches are uploaded to an Azure Storage Account, serving as a central repository accessible to all AVD instances. A carefully designed naming convention ensures smooth integration with the subsequent PowerShell script. A PowerShell script was crafted to download updates from the central repository and initiate their installation on respective AVD instances. This script ensures that critical patches are promptly applied to all relevant virtual machines. The process definition feature of the IT inventory management and monitoring tool provides detailed logs for all machines, indicating the status of patch download and installation. A comprehensive patch installation report is generated to validate the correct installation of patches. The generated report is shared with the client for validation, ensuring transparency & accountability in the patching process. The IT inventory management and monitoring tool utilized by our Company facilitates remote execution of the PowerShell script across all AVD instances. This centralized control mechanism ensures efficient management of the patching process. Python Script for Patch Download The IT inventory management and monitoring tool utilized by our Company facilitates remote execution of the PowerShell script across all AVD instances. This centralized control mechanism ensures efficient management of the patching process. The process definition feature of the IT inventory management and monitoring tool provides detailed logs for all machines, indicating the status of patch download and installation. A comprehensive patch installation report is generated to validate the correct installation of patches. The generated report is shared with the client for validation, ensuring transparency & accountability in the patching process. The existing data pipeline, with multiple hops, introduced significant delays in detecting connectivity issues. The geographically dispersed nature of the OT systems required centralized & accurate monitoring. Handling data traffic peaks during the event was essential for reliability. Immediate identification of connectivity issues was crucial to minimize downtime. Hours spent in diagnosing connectivity problems hampered the effectiveness of the support team. The need to process 100s of thousands of events/minute required a cloud infrastructure that could scale efficiently with demand. High availability was crucial to ensure uninterrupted stadium services, and digital twin operations during the event. Managing data from around 40,000 IoT devices for efficient control & assessment required seamless integration. Optimizing resource utilization to prevent over-provisioning and unnecessary expenses was crucial. The infrastructure needed to be standardized across environments and comply with stringent security policies. The IT inventory management and monitoring tool utilized by our Company facilitates remote execution of the PowerShell script across all AVD instances. This centralized control mechanism ensures efficient management of the patching process. The process definition feature of the IT inventory management and monitoring tool provides detailed logs for all machines, indicating the status of patch download and installation. A comprehensive patch installation report is generated to validate the correct installation of patches. The generated report is shared with the client for validation, ensuring transparency & accountability in the patching process. A Python script was developed to operate on a single virtual machine within the AVD environment. This script accesses the Windows Update Catalog to download the latest patches as soon as they are released by Microsoft. The downloaded patches are uploaded to an Azure Storage Account, serving as a central repository accessible to all AVD instances. A carefully designed naming convention ensures smooth integration with the subsequent PowerShell script. A PowerShell script was crafted to download updates from the central repository and initiate their installation on respective AVD instances. This script ensures that critical patches are promptly applied to all relevant virtual machines. With systems distributed across both on-premises and cloud environments, the organization needed a centralized dashboard to monitor everything. The on-premises infrastructure generated a wide variety of metrics and logs that had to be collected, normalized, and analyzed efficiently. Real-time insights and alerting mechanisms were necessary to detect & address potential issues before they impacted operations. The monitoring framework needed to ensure data was collected and processed in compliance with data security policies. The rapid growth of electric vehicles has introduced new challenges that customers must overcome. With fragmented charging networks, complicated subscription models, and disjointed management systems, users face inefficiencies that hinder their experience and drive up costs. Customers are burdened with managing multiple subscriptions, finding available charging stations, and tracking energy consumption. Despite providing high-quality services, the logistic company faced significant challenges as an emerging player in the competitive logistics industry. In 2022, their website traffic stood at zero, & they struggled to create brand awareness in the crowded e-commerce logistics market. Their primary objective was to develop a comprehensive digital marketing strategy to drive organic and referral traffic, enhance brand visibility, and boost conversions. The online pharmacy faced challenges in: Driving website organic traffic Creating awareness among the target audience Limited awareness of their lab test collaboration Stiff competition in the e-commerce pharmacy sector The objective was to increase website traffic and customer engagement, ensuring a stronger brand presence in the market.

challenges: Over 30,000 cross vendor OT devices generated massive volumes of data, with varying formats and structures that needed normalization. Over 30,000 cross vendor OT devices generated massive volumes of data, with varying formats and structures that needed normalization. Sending all data to the cloud for processing would have resulted in high latency and potential data loss. Sending all data to the cloud for processing would have resulted in high latency and potential data loss. Edge devices had limited computing resources compared to centralized cloud servers, requiring efficient orchestration and resource usage. Edge devices had limited computing resources compared to centralized cloud servers, requiring efficient orchestration and resource usage. The solution needed to scale horizontally to accommodate future integrations and increased data volume. The solution needed to scale horizontally to accommodate future integrations and increased data volume. Our client wanted to make their platform better and more reliable in order to win business in the competitive market with a differentiator of managing its rider force more efficiently. They wanted to solve few problems such as the ones highlighted below with additional feature sets to be added on in subsequent phases. SolutionThe integration platform addresses these challenges by offering a unified cloud marketplace that simplifies the discovery, procurement, and management of cloud services. Key features of the integration platform include: SolutionThe integration platform addresses these challenges by offering a unified cloud marketplace that simplifies the discovery, procurement, and management of cloud services. Key features of the integration platform include: Ensuring consistent BCDR capabilities across both Azure and on-premises environments. Implementing a disaster recovery solution that allows quick failover to minimize downtime during the event. Maintaining data consistency and availability across geographically dispersed locations. Automating the disaster recovery process to reduce manual intervention and potential errors. Difficulty in tracking user behavior and incentivize eco-friendly practices due to a lack of effective implementation. A lack of proper monitoring and inducements to encourage people to make sustainable choices. A need for monitoring and incentivizing tools to inspire people to contribute to a cleaner environment. Difficulty in tracking user behavior and incentivize eco-friendly practices due to a lack of effective implementation. A lack of proper monitoring and inducements to encourage people to make sustainable choices. A need for monitoring and incentivizing tools to inspire people to contribute to a cleaner environment. Develop a centralized platform for managing cloud procurement and services. Incorporate a multi-vendor marketplace for SaaS, PaaS, and IaaS offerings. Provide value-added services for optimized cloud setup and management within organizations. Integrate with AWS and MS CSP (Microsoft Cloud Solution Provider) for seamless service provisioning. Enable limited ERP (E1) integration for credit checks and recurring billing. Integrate with up to 10 initial SaaS providers. Management portal for easy setup and provisioning of cloud services. Billing and payment integration with JDE E1 (ERP) for credit checks and procurement. Support for various payment methods including net terms and credit cards. Basic reporting, profiling, and alerts for subscriptions and licenses. Role-based access and purchase request approval workflows. Handling of failure notifications and offline cases. Single billing system for aggregating cloud services. Integration with PaaS and secondary tier IaaS providers. Advanced insights into security, performance, budget, and costs. Custom integration and e-Procurement with customer ERPs. Transfer of CCP carts or SKUs between the company’s Portals. Contract management, identity, and user management. The organization’s frontline teams are at the forefront of tackling environmental challenges globally. However, their effectiveness hinges on a seamless and efficient back-office operation. The organization fulfills this critical role by handling essential tasks that keep the organization running smoothly. Over 30,000 cross vendor OT devices generated massive volumes of data, with varying formats and structures that needed normalization. Sending all data to the cloud for processing would have resulted in high latency and potential data loss. Edge devices had limited computing resources compared to centralized cloud servers, requiring efficient orchestration and resource usage The solution needed to scale horizontally to accommodate future integrations and increased data volume. Develop a centralized platform for managing cloud procurement and services. Incorporate a multi-vendor marketplace for SaaS, PaaS, and IaaS offerings. Provide value-added services for optimized cloud setup and management within organizations. Dependance on Excel sheets for subscription data Manual scanning leading to delays and inefficiencies Dissimilar sheet formats from different vendors Unavailability of automated system for subscription expiration reminders The organization’s Back Office Team plays a pivotal role in ensuring the smooth functioning of various administrative and operational aspects of the organization. Here are some benefits that the Back Office Team brings: Individual outreach required for each client Keeping the Organization Running Smoothly The organization’s frontline teams are at the forefront of tackling environmental challenges globally. However, their effectiveness hinges on a seamless and efficient back-office operation. The organization fulfills this critical role by handling essential tasks that keep the organization running smoothly. The organization serves as the first point of contact for customer inquiries, ensuring prompt and efficient resolution. Real-time support through live chat software allows them to address customer needs quickly and conveniently. The organization identifies technical issues and validates solutions, ensuring a smooth user experience for its internal and external applications. Comprehensive training on various programs and platforms empowers the organization’s staff across all departments. Clear and concise documentation ensures consistent and efficient execution of technical processes. The organization manages user accounts and access permissions, safeguarding data integrity.

cloud: With our cloud infrastructure management solutions, you can streamline your operations while ensuring all your other company activities run as smoothly, flexibly, and affordably as possible. Our cloud-driven security solutions enable you to safeguard your valuable data, ensuring regulatory compliance. Leverage the scalability and convenience of cloud security and protect your business against cyber threats. Our managed cloud services ensures real-time visibility into your infrastructure's performance. With our 24/7 proactive support, we are always read to address any issue, minimize downtime, and increase reliability. Our managed cloud services offer you scalability and flexibility that enable resource adjustment according to changing demands, allowing you to launch new apps, expand operations, and handle growing workloads. Eliminating unnecessary expenses makes your business cost-effective. Our managed cloud services continuously monitor your cloud environment and offer profitable solutions that align with your budget and goals. We safeguard your business against any unforeseen events with reliable Backup & Disaster Recovery solutions, ensure business continuity and steer clear of any potential disasters, utilizing secure and scalable tools. With our cutting-edge solutions, you can streamline the management of your cloud infrastructure while ensuring that your company's activities run as smoothly, flexibly, and affordably as possible. Our cloud-driven security solutions enable you to safeguard your valuable data and ensure regulatory compliance. Leverage the scalability and convenience of the cloud and secure your business against cyber threats. Boost your web content's performance and reliability with our cloud-based monitoring and support solutions. Our dedicated support team is available to ensure continuous operations in the rapidly evolving cloud environment. We empower you to seamlessly expand your resources to meet rising demands and scale down during slower times, ensuring optimal performance and cost-efficiency. We help you streamline your operations and boost efficiency while reducing expenses, allowing you to leverage the power of the cloud to drive growth and achieve your financial goals. We allow you to safeguard your business against unforeseen events with our reliable Backup & Disaster Recovery solutions. Ensure business continuity and steer clear of any potential disaster by leveraging our secure and scalable services. Our managed cloud services offer you scalability that allows you to adjust your resources according to different requirements and changes. The flexibility enables you to launch new applications, expand operations, and even handle growing workloads seamlessly. When we eliminate unnecessary expenses, your business becomes cost-effective which enables you to manage resources efficiently. With managed cloud services, we continuously monitor your cloud environment and offer cost-optimization solutions that align with your budget, allowing smooth operations overall. We allow you to safeguard your business against unforeseen events with our reliable Backup & Disaster Recovery solutions. Ensure business continuity and steer clear of any potential disaster by utilizing our secure and scalable services. With our cloud infrastructure management solutions, you can streamline your operations while ensuring all your other company activities run as smoothly, flexibly, and affordably as possible. With our cloud infrastructure management solutions, you can streamline your operations while ensuring all your other company activities run as smoothly, flexibly, and affordably as possible. With our cloud infrastructure management solutions, you can streamline your operations while ensuring all your other company activities run as smoothly, flexibly, and affordably as possible. With our cloud infrastructure management solutions, you can streamline your operations while ensuring all your other company activities run as smoothly, flexibly, and affordably as possible. With our cloud infrastructure management solutions, you can streamline your operations while ensuring all your other company activities run as smoothly, flexibly, and affordably as possible. Our managed cloud services offer you scalability that enable resource adjustment according to different requirements and changes. The flexibility allows you to launch new applications, expand operations, and even handle growing workloads. Eliminating unnecessary expenses makes your business cost-effective. With our managed cloud services, we continuously monitor your cloud environment and offer profitable solutions that align with your budget, allowing smooth operations overall. Our managed cloud services offer you scalability and flexibility that enable resource adjustment according to different requirements, allowing you to launch new apps, expand operations, and handle growing workloads. We safeguard your business against any unforeseen events with reliable Backup & Disaster Recovery solutions. Ensure business continuity and steer clear of any potential disaster, utilizing secure and scalable services.

comparison: DevOps focuses on collaboration between development and operations teams. DevSecOps focuses on the integration of security into the entire SDLC life cycle. - Continuous Integration (CI), - Continuous Delivery (CD), - Automated Testing, - Infrastructure As Code (IaC). - Secure Coding Practices, - Automated Security Testing, - Vulnerability Management, - Continuous Security Monitoring, - Compliance Management. DevOps focuses on collaboration between development and operations teams. The main goal of DevOps is to speed up software development and deployment, improve collaboration, and ensure reliability and scalability. The main goal of DevSecOps is to embed security into every stage of the DevOps pipeline, ensuring software is secure from the outset. Security is often addressed separately or at the end. Security is incorporated throughout all phases of development and operations. Focus on collaboration between development and operations. All team members, including security professionals, share responsibility for security. Standard DevOps tools and practices aimed at efficiency and automation. Additional tools and practices for security, including automated security testing and continuous vulnerability assessments. The main goal of DevOps is to speed up software development and deployment, improve collaboration, and ensure reliability and scalability.

compiling: Scalable Infrastructure & Digital Twin Management a:3:{s:5:"title";s:42:"Case Study – 8 – Global Football Event";s:3:"url";s:36:"/case-study/digital-twin-management/";s:6:"target";s:0:"";} a:3:{s:5:"title";s:44:"Case Study – 10 – Mentoring Reachability";s:3:"url";s:37:"/case-study/ot-systems-on-edge-nodes/";s:6:"target";s:0:"";} a:3:{s:5:"title";s:74:"Case Study – 9 – Transforming License Renewals by Improving Efficiency";s:3:"url";s:42:"/case-study/transforming-license-renewals/";s:6:"target";s:0:"";} a:3:{s:5:"title";s:32:"Case Study – 4 – AVD Windows";s:3:"url";s:46:"/case-study/automating-azure-virtual-desktops/";s:6:"target";s:0:"";} a:3:{s:5:"title";s:50:"Case Study – 13 – FIAT and Crypto Transactions";s:3:"url";s:41:"/case-study/fiat-and-crypto-transactions/";s:6:"target";s:0:"";} a:3:{s:5:"title";s:34:"Case Study – 11 – Global Serve";s:3:"url";s:34:"/case-study/global-it-procurement/";s:6:"target";s:0:"";} a:3:{s:5:"title";s:81:"Case Study – 7 – Back Office Team at an International Non-Profit Organization";s:3:"url";s:29:"/case-study/back-office-team/";s:6:"target";s:0:"";} a:3:{s:5:"title";s:42:"Case Study – 8 – Global Football Event";s:3:"url";s:110:"https://prerelease.arpatech.com/bsiness-continuity-and-disaster-recovery-strategy-for-a-global-football-event/";s:6:"target";s:0:"";} a:3:{s:5:"title";s:81:"Case Study – 7 – Back Office Team at an International Non-Profit Organization";s:3:"url";s:93:"https://prerelease.arpatech.com/back-office-team-at-an-international-non-profit-organization/";s:6:"target";s:0:"";} a:3:{s:5:"title";s:67:"Case Study – 5 – Paving the Path for a Greener FutureCase Study";s:3:"url";s:103:"https://prerelease.arpatech.com/paving-the-path-for-a-greener-future-with-the-adoption-of-incentivized/";s:6:"target";s:0:"";} a:3:{s:5:"title";s:58:"Case Study – 6 – Customer Journey Integration Platform";s:3:"url";s:70:"https://prerelease.arpatech.com/customer-journey-integration-platform/";s:6:"target";s:0:"";} a:3:{s:5:"title";s:41:"Case Study – 2 – Project of a Fortune";s:3:"url";s:64:"https://prerelease.arpatech.com/case-study-project-of-a-fortune/";s:6:"target";s:0:"";} a:3:{s:5:"title";s:40:"Case Study – 1 – Mobile App Logistic";s:3:"url";s:63:"https://prerelease.arpatech.com/case-study-mobile-app-logistic/";s:6:"target";s:0:"";} a:3:{s:5:"title";s:99:"Case Study – 8 – Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery Strategy for a Global Football Event";s:3:"url";s:110:"https://prerelease.arpatech.com/bsiness-continuity-and-disaster-recovery-strategy-for-a-global-football-event/";s:6:"target";s:0:"";} a:3:{s:5:"title";s:90:"Case Study – 11 – Case Study of a Global IT Procurement and Service Management Company";s:3:"url";s:56:"https://prerelease.arpatech.com/case-study-global-serve/";s:6:"target";s:0:"";} a:3:{s:5:"title";s:54:"Case Study – 2 – Project of a Fortune 1000 company";s:3:"url";s:77:"https://prerelease.arpatech.com/case-study-project-of-a-fortune-1000-company/";s:6:"target";s:0:"";} a:3:{s:5:"title";s:42:"Case Study – 3 – RKE to Normalize Data";s:3:"url";s:65:"https://prerelease.arpatech.com/case-study-rke-to-normalize-data/";s:6:"target";s:0:"";} a:3:{s:5:"title";s:34:"Case Study – 11 – Global Serve";s:3:"url";s:96:"https://prerelease.arpatech.com/case-study-global-it-procurement-and-service-management-company/";s:6:"target";s:0:"";} a:3:{s:5:"title";s:74:"Case Study – 9 – Transforming License Renewals by Improving Efficiency";s:3:"url";s:86:"https://prerelease.arpatech.com/transforming-license-renewals-by-improving-efficiency/";s:6:"target";s:0:"";} a:3:{s:5:"title";s:32:"Case Study – 4 – AVD Windows";s:3:"url";s:123:"https://prerelease.arpatech.com/automating-azure-virtual-desktops-avd-windows-patching-with-latest-release-windows-updates/";s:6:"target";s:0:"";} a:3:{s:5:"title";s:62:"Case Study – 13 – Seamless Integration of Traditional FIAT";s:3:"url";s:108:"https://prerelease.arpatech.com/case-study-seamless-integration-of-traditional-fiat-and-crypto-transactions/";s:6:"target";s:0:"";} a:3:{s:5:"title";s:44:"Case Study – 10 – Mentoring Reachability";s:3:"url";s:115:"https://prerelease.arpatech.com/case-study-mentoring-reachabilit-to-ot-systems-on-edge-nodes-during-the-fifa-event/";s:6:"target";s:0:"";} a:3:{s:5:"title";s:42:"Case Study – 8 – Global Football Event";s:3:"url";s:67:"https://prerelease.arpatech.com/case-study-scalable-infrastructure/";s:6:"target";s:0:"";} a:3:{s:5:"title";s:42:"Case Study – 3 – RKE to Normalize Data";s:3:"url";s:103:"https://prerelease.arpatech.com/case-study-leveraging-rke-to-normalize-data-from-over-30000-ot-devices/";s:6:"target";s:0:"";} a:3:{s:5:"title";s:44:"Case Study – 10 – Mentoring Reachability";s:3:"url";s:116:"https://prerelease.arpatech.com/case-study-mentoring-reachability-to-ot-systems-on-edge-nodes-during-the-fifa-event/";s:6:"target";s:0:"";} a:3:{s:5:"title";s:99:"Case Study – 8 – Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery Strategy for a Global Football Event";s:3:"url";s:122:"https://prerelease.arpatech.com/case-study-business-continuity-and-disaster-recovery-strategy-for-a-global-football-event/";s:6:"target";s:0:"";} a:3:{s:5:"title";s:81:"Case Study – 7 – Back Office Team at an International Non-Profit Organization";s:3:"url";s:104:"https://prerelease.arpatech.com/case-study-back-office-team-at-an-international-non-profit-organization/";s:6:"target";s:0:"";} a:3:{s:5:"title";s:67:"Case Study – 5 – Paving the Path for a Greener FutureCase Study";s:3:"url";s:132:"https://prerelease.arpatech.com/case-study-paving-the-path-for-a-greener-future-with-the-adoption-of-incentivizedi-electric-vehicle/";s:6:"target";s:0:"";} a:3:{s:5:"title";s:58:"Case Study – 6 – Customer Journey Integration Platform";s:3:"url";s:81:"https://prerelease.arpatech.com/case-study-customer-journey-integration-platform/";s:6:"target";s:0:"";} a:3:{s:5:"title";s:32:"Case Study – 4 – AVD Windows";s:3:"url";s:134:"https://prerelease.arpatech.com/case-study-automating-azure-virtual-desktops-avd-windows-patching-with-latest-release-windows-updates/";s:6:"target";s:0:"";} a:3:{s:5:"title";s:74:"Case Study – 9 – Transforming License Renewals by Improving Efficiency";s:3:"url";s:97:"https://prerelease.arpatech.com/case-study-transforming-license-renewals-by-improving-efficiency/";s:6:"target";s:0:"";} a:3:{s:5:"title";s:67:"Case Study – 5 – Paving the Path for a Greener FutureCase Study";s:3:"url";s:131:"https://prerelease.arpatech.com/case-study-paving-the-path-for-a-greener-future-with-the-adoption-of-incentivized-electric-vehicle/";s:6:"target";s:0:"";} a:3:{s:5:"title";s:40:"Case Study – 1 – Mobile App Logistic";s:3:"url";s:49:"https://prerelease.arpatech.com/logistic-company/";s:6:"target";s:0:"";} a:3:{s:5:"title";s:42:"Case Study – 8 – Global Football Event";s:3:"url";s:36:"/case-study-scalable-infrastructure/";s:6:"target";s:0:"";} a:3:{s:5:"title";s:44:"Case Study – 10 – Mentoring Reachability";s:3:"url";s:85:"/case-study-mentoring-reachability-to-ot-systems-on-edge-nodes-during-the-fifa-event/";s:6:"target";s:0:"";} a:3:{s:5:"title";s:32:"Case Study – 4 – AVD Windows";s:3:"url";s:103:"/case-study-automating-azure-virtual-desktops-avd-windows-patching-with-latest-release-windows-updates/";s:6:"target";s:0:"";} a:3:{s:5:"title";s:74:"Case Study – 9 – Transforming License Renewals by Improving Efficiency";s:3:"url";s:66:"/case-study-transforming-license-renewals-by-improving-efficiency/";s:6:"target";s:0:"";} a:3:{s:5:"title";s:62:"Case Study – 13 – Seamless Integration of Traditional FIAT";s:3:"url";s:77:"/case-study-seamless-integration-of-traditional-fiat-and-crypto-transactions/";s:6:"target";s:0:"";} a:3:{s:5:"title";s:34:"Case Study – 11 – Global Serve";s:3:"url";s:65:"/case-study-global-it-procurement-and-service-management-company/";s:6:"target";s:0:"";} a:3:{s:5:"title";s:81:"Case Study – 7 – Back Office Team at an International Non-Profit Organization";s:3:"url";s:73:"/case-study-back-office-team-at-an-international-non-profit-organization/";s:6:"target";s:0:"";} a:3:{s:5:"title";s:67:"Case Study – 5 – Paving the Path for a Greener FutureCase Study";s:3:"url";s:100:"/case-study-paving-the-path-for-a-greener-future-with-the-adoption-of-incentivized-electric-vehicle/";s:6:"target";s:0:"";} a:3:{s:5:"title";s:58:"Case Study – 6 – Customer Journey Integration Platform";s:3:"url";s:50:"/case-study-customer-journey-integration-platform/";s:6:"target";s:0:"";} a:3:{s:5:"title";s:54:"Case Study – 2 – Project of a Fortune 1000 company";s:3:"url";s:46:"/case-study-project-of-a-fortune-1000-company/";s:6:"target";s:0:"";} a:3:{s:5:"title";s:40:"Case Study – 1 – Mobile App Logistic";s:3:"url";s:18:"/logistic-company/";s:6:"target";s:0:"";} a:3:{s:5:"title";s:99:"Case Study – 8 – Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery Strategy for a Global Football Event";s:3:"url";s:91:"/case-study-business-continuity-and-disaster-recovery-strategy-for-a-global-football-event/";s:6:"target";s:0:"";} a:3:{s:5:"title";s:42:"Case Study – 3 – RKE to Normalize Data";s:3:"url";s:72:"/case-study-leveraging-rke-to-normalize-data-from-over-30000-ot-devices/";s:6:"target";s:0:"";} a:3:{s:5:"title";s:42:"Case Study – 8 – Global Football Event";s:3:"url";s:36:"/case-study/digital-twin-management/";s:6:"target";s:0:"";} a:3:{s:5:"title";s:44:"Case Study – 10 – Mentoring Reachability";s:3:"url";s:37:"/case-study/ot-systems-on-edge-nodes/";s:6:"target";s:0:"";} a:3:{s:5:"title";s:74:"Case Study – 9 – Transforming License Renewals by Improving Efficiency";s:3:"url";s:42:"/case-study/transforming-license-renewals/";s:6:"target";s:0:"";} a:3:{s:5:"title";s:32:"Case Study – 4 – AVD Windows";s:3:"url";s:46:"/case-study/automating-azure-virtual-desktops/";s:6:"target";s:0:"";} a:3:{s:5:"title";s:50:"Case Study – 13 – FIAT and Crypto Transactions";s:3:"url";s:41:"/case-study/fiat-and-crypto-transactions/";s:6:"target";s:0:"";} a:3:{s:5:"title";s:34:"Case Study – 11 – Global Serve";s:3:"url";s:34:"/case-study/global-it-procurement/";s:6:"target";s:0:"";} a:3:{s:5:"title";s:81:"Case Study – 7 – Back Office Team at an International Non-Profit Organization";s:3:"url";s:29:"/case-study/back-office-team/";s:6:"target";s:0:"";} a:3:{s:5:"title";s:67:"Case Study – 5 – Paving the Path for a Greener FutureCase Study";s:3:"url";s:27:"/case-study/greener-future/";s:6:"target";s:0:"";} a:3:{s:5:"title";s:54:"Case Study – 2 – Project of a Fortune 1000 company";s:3:"url";s:33:"/case-study/fortune-1000-company/";s:6:"target";s:0:"";} a:3:{s:5:"title";s:75:"Case Study – 8 – Disaster Recovery Strategy for a Global Football Event";s:3:"url";s:39:"/case-study/disaster-recovery-strategy/";s:6:"target";s:0:"";} a:3:{s:5:"title";s:42:"Case Study – 3 – RKE to Normalize Data";s:3:"url";s:51:"https://www.arpatech.com/case-study/normalize-data/";s:6:"target";s:0:"";} a:3:{s:5:"title";s:67:"Case Study – 5 – Paving the Path for a Greener FutureCase Study";s:3:"url";s:27:"/case-study/greener-future/";s:6:"target";s:0:"";} a:3:{s:5:"title";s:58:"Case Study – 6 – Customer Journey Integration Platform";s:3:"url";s:50:"/case-study-customer-journey-integration-platform/";s:6:"target";s:0:"";} a:3:{s:5:"title";s:54:"Case Study – 2 – Project of a Fortune 1000 company";s:3:"url";s:33:"/case-study/fortune-1000-company/";s:6:"target";s:0:"";} a:3:{s:5:"title";s:40:"Case Study – 1 – Mobile App Logistic";s:3:"url";s:18:"/logistic-company/";s:6:"target";s:0:"";} a:3:{s:5:"title";s:75:"Case Study – 8 – Disaster Recovery Strategy for a Global Football Event";s:3:"url";s:39:"/case-study/disaster-recovery-strategy/";s:6:"target";s:0:"";} a:3:{s:5:"title";s:42:"Case Study – 3 – RKE to Normalize Data";s:3:"url";s:51:"https://www.arpatech.com/case-study/normalize-data/";s:6:"target";s:0:"";}

components: We extract, convert, and load data from diverse sources into your target system, allowing you to simplify your data management and gain valuable insights. Data Warehousing Sample content Data Warehousing Sample content Data Warehousing Sample content Data Warehousing Sample content Data Warehousing Sample content Data Warehousing Sample content Data modeling is the process of creating an intangible illustration of data and its relationships to support understanding, analysis, and manipulation of that data. Data Analytics is the process of evaluating data sets to determine trends and draw conclusions about the information they contain. Data analytics is increasingly carried out with the use of specialized hardware and software. The graphic display of information and data is known as data visualization. Data visualization tools offer an easy approach to see and comprehend trends, outliers, and patterns in data. Reporting and dashboards are vital tools for tracking and managing Key Performance Indicators (KPIs). KPIs are quantitative metrics that gauge a company's performance or particular facets of it. Data governance is the overall management and control of an organization's data assets. The main object of data governance is to create a framework that guides the appropriate and responsible use of data within an organization. Advanced analytics involves using cutting-edge statistical and mathematical approaches, machine learning algorithms, and predictive modeling techniques to examine large and multifaceted datasets. Data-driven decision-making involves gathering, examining, and interpreting data to gain insights and support decision-making processes.

conclusion: The company stands out as a pioneering force in the global IT services industry. Its commitment to client success, hands-on approach to challenges, and comprehensive service offerings make it a reliable partner for businesses worldwide. This case study highlights the importance of proactive patch management strategies in cloud environments and demonstrates how organizations can overcome platform limitations to meet client requirements effectively. By leveraging automation and centralized control mechanisms, MSP team not only addressed the specific challenge of patching for AVD but also enhanced overall security posture and operational efficiency. The Back Office Team's dedication to efficiency and streamlined processes translates into measurable results for the organization, including increased frontline team productivity, reduced operational costs, improved data accuracy and compliance, enhanced decision-making, and increased customer and stakeholder satisfaction. The BCDR strategy developed for the global football event provided the client with a highly resilient and scalable solution that ensured continuity during critical times. By integrating Azure cloud solutions with on-premises workloads and employing cutting-edge tools like Terraform and Azure DevOps, the client could confidently manage the event’s infrastructure needs, ensuring a seamless experience for millions of visitors The BCDR strategy developed for the global football event provided the client with a highly resilient and scalable solution that ensured continuity during critical times. By integrating Azure cloud solutions with on-premises workloads and employing cutting-edge tools like Terraform and Azure DevOps, the client could confidently manage the event’s infrastructure needs, ensuring a seamless experience for millions of visitors. Thanks to the app, people worldwide can actively practice sustainable behavior and contribute to a greener future. The software allows users to have a good impact on the environment while benefiting from a more sustainable lifestyle by offering an excellent platform for recording, appreciating, and rewarding eco-friendly behaviors. By providing a comprehensive and integrated platform, the integration platform empowers organizations to leverage the full potential of cloud services, driving efficiency, agility, and innovation. This case study effectively shows how the global IT solutions provider enables the integration platform to offer an innovative solution to address the challenges faced by both customers and vendors in the cloud ecosystem. The enterprise successfully leveraged Rancher Kubernetes Engine for efficient edge computing, enabling data normalization and aggregation from over 30,000 OT systems. The solution, which was processing 1500 messages per second, minimized data transmission latency and improved resilience while providing a scalable and consistent platform for containerized applications. This approach set a foundation for future expansion and optimized data management at the edge. Arpatech's solution of developing an agent with Azure Application Insights SDK successfully eliminated delays in identifying connectivity issues during the 2022 FIFA event. The improved monitoring framework facilitated near-instantaneous detection, streamlined data reporting, and enhanced overall SRE efficiency The solution integrating Microsoft Azure, Terraform, and Kubernetes, combined with a digital twin system, achieved operational excellence for the Football event. It ensured seamless scaling, optimized resource utilization, and real-time stadium management, providing a framework for future events of similar magnitude. The landmark project from the Fortune 1000 company is a game-changer enterprise engagement. The company improves efficiency, collaboration, and the customer experience by replacing outdated Excel processes with a centralized and automated platform. The company continues to be at the forefront of innovation by enabling users to make informed recommendations and deliver the best solutions. To its credit, the company offers exceptional solutions to businesses navigating the changing business landscape, cementing its position as a reliable partner. By proactively addressing logistics challenges, the company achieved significant improvements in efficiency, cost reduction, and customer satisfaction. This case study demonstrates the value of strategic investments in logistics optimization for business success. The environmental and waste management organization successfully implemented an OpenTelemetry-based monitoring framework to unify the monitoring of its on-premises infrastructure with Azure Application Insights. This solution provided real-time alerts, comprehensive visibility, and compliance, improving operational efficiency and laying a strong foundation for future enhancements in infrastructure management. The platform offers a comprehensive platform that simplifies the process of monitoring and reducing the environmental impact of vehicle usage. By connecting to a wide range of vehicles, including both electric & internal combustion engine (ICE) cars, the app provides users with actionable insights & tools to mitigate their carbon footprint. Through features like tree planting & community engagement, it empowers individuals to take meaningful steps towards a more sustainable future. This automated database revolutionized seller financing by consolidating data, delivering insights, and fostering trust through blockchain integration, making it a robust solution for the e-commerce ecosystem. This platform is a transformative solution that addresses the complex challenges faced by individual EV users. By offering a centralized platform that combines EV subscription management, charging station visibility, and referral incentives, it provides a seamless, efficient, and cost-effective experience. With the power to optimize energy usage, reduce costs, and foster growth, this platform paves the way for a sustainable, future-proof EV ecosystem. With this EV service platform, individuals can fully harness the potential of electric mobility, driving both business innovation & environmental sustainability, while ensuring an unmatched user experience in the EV space. Arpatech's marketing strategy helped the logistics company solve its website traffic problem, increasing visibility, engagement, and conversions. Our customized digital plan enabled the company to grow in a competitive market and become a leading logistics brand. Our partnership made the company stronger, enabling it to compete successfully and attract customers for long-term growth. Arpatech's customized digital marketing strategy helped the premium online pharmacy achieve remarkable results, exceeding their objective of reaching 500K overall traffic in 2023. By leveraging organic marketing, performance marketing, and influencer collaborations, we successfully increased website traffic, conversions, and brand awareness, solidifying their position in the competitive e-commerce pharmacy sector.

contact: We offer a wide range of services to help businesses of all sizes grow and succeed. Our services include:

csr: A small act of kindness goes a long way. To develop a strong community, Arpatech plays its role in improving people’s lives, especially those at the bottom of the population pyramid. Arpatech's CSR activities extend beyond our office walls, such as our annual blood donation drive. By encouraging our employees to donate blood, we actively contribute to local healthcare systems. Early detection is vital in the fight against breast cancer. Arpatech takes an active role in raising awareness about breast cancer and promoting regular health check-ups for women. A Helping Hand in Times of Our flood donation drive, in collaboration with The Citizens Foundation, was aimed to save lives and help flood-hit victims. We believe in standing together, hand in hand, to rebuild lives and restore hope. Arpatech takes pride in supporting wildlife preservation. In this regard, the company made a generous donation to Islamabad Wildlife Management Board (IWMB). Our CSR activities are not just a checklist; they are an integral part of our culture and values. The Ration Bag Distribution drive exemplifies our support to underprivileged families, ensuring they have access to the bare minimum. Our visits to the Edhi Foundation allow us to interact with the vulnerable and marginalized segments of society. This provides us with invaluable opportunities to connect on a human level, where empathy and compassion become the driving forces behind our actions. Our flood donation drive, in collaboration with The Citizens Foundation, was aimed to save lives and help flood-hit victims. We believe in standing together, hand in hand, to rebuild lives and restore hope.

description: The organization’s Back Office Team plays a pivotal role in ensuring the smooth functioning of various administrative and operational aspects of the organization. Here are some benefits that the Back Office Team brings The company’s app is designed to change over time, leveraging new technologies and reflecting users' changing needs. A strong foundation is the primary goal of the initial proof of concept, with ongoing improvement based on user feedback planned. By using an iterative process, the app is kept current, efficient, and in line with user expectations. The company’s app is designed to change over time, leveraging new technologies and reflecting users' changing needs. A strong foundation is the primary goal of the initial proof of concept, with ongoing improvement based on user feedback planned. By using an iterative process, the app is kept current,befficient, and in line with user expectations.

development: We offer Custom Application Development services that build solutions made specifically for you. We build new apps from scratch or enhance existing ones, that ensure seamless operations. We design and build apps that work on both iOS and Android devices, customized to meet your business requirements. These applications will work on all mobile devices seamlessly. Our Web App development services offer creating web applications that are designed to provide specific functionality to the user, such as e-commerce, or content management systems. Our software performance testing services thoroughly test your software to find and fix any issues before it goes live, ensuring your software is reliable, user-friendly, and free of bugs. Fix issues and update features to ensure everything works as expected with our software maintenance services. We ensure that your software always stays reliable and up-to-date. IT consulting involves providing expert advice and guidance to firms on how to leverage technology to achieve their goals. Avail our IT staff augmentation service and develop your business. This is the process of designing and developing software applications tailored to the specific needs of a client or organization, graphic, print and web layouts. This is the process of designing and developing software applications tailored to the specific needs of a client or organization, graphic, print and web layouts. This is the process of designing and developing software applications tailored to the specific needs of a client or organization, graphic, print and web layouts. This is the process of designing and developing software applications tailored to the specific needs of a client or organization, graphic, print and web layouts. This is the process of designing and developing software applications tailored to the specific needs of a client or organization, graphic, print and web layouts. This is the process of designing and developing software applications tailored to the specific needs of a client or organization, graphic, print and web layouts. This is the process of designing and developing software applications tailored to the specific needs of a client or organization, graphic, print and web layouts. This is the process of designing and developing software applications tailored to the specific needs of a client or organization, graphic, print and web layouts. This is the process of designing and developing software applications tailored to the specific needs of a client or organization. This process involves creating software applications that run on mobile devices such as smartphones and tablets. This is the process of creating software applications that are designed to provide specific functionality to the user, such as e-commerce, social networking, or content management. These services enable companies to store data and run applications in a virtual environment. This service involves testing software to ensure that it meets the client's requirements and is free from defects. This service involves maintaining and updating software after it has been deployed. Developers provide technical support, fix bugs, and update the software to keep it running smoothly. IT consulting involves providing expert advice and guidance to businesses on how to leverage technology to achieve their goals. This process involves the design, development, testing, and deployment of products, with the goal of creating high-quality, reliable, and innovative products that meet customer needs. Arpatech offers Custom Application Development services that build solutions tailored specifically for you. So, whether you need a new app or enhancements to an existing one, we ensure it works seamlessly and helps your business run more smoothly. We design and build apps that work on both iOS and Android devices, customized to meet your business requirements. This process involves creating software applications that run on all mobile devices including smartphones and tablets, growing your business infinitely. Our Web App development services offer creating web applications that are designed to provide specific functionality to the user, such as e-commerce, social networking, or content management. Our managed cloud computing services to help you store and manage your data and applications online. This means you can access your information from anywhere, at any time, without needing to rely on physical servers. So, make your systems flexible, secure, and scalable. With our software performance testing services, we thoroughly test your software to find and fix any issues before it goes live. This helps ensure that your software is reliable, user-friendly, and free of bugs, so your customers have a smooth and enjoyable experience. Fix any ongoing issues, update features, and ensure everything works as expected with our software performance testing services. Our goal is to make sure your software stays reliable and up-to-date, so you can focus on your business without worrying about technical problems. IT consulting involves providing expert advice and guidance to businesses on how to leverage technology to achieve their goals. So, avail our IT staff augmentation service and develop your business. Our product engineering service teams work with you to design, build, and refine your product, making sure it meets your needs and performs well. We handle everything from initial ideas to final touches, ensuring your product is ready and offers a great experience to your users. Arpatech offers Custom Application Development services that build solutions tailored specifically for you. We build new apps from scratch or enhance existing ones, that ensure seamless operations in your business. Our managed cloud computing services help you store and manage your data and applications online. You can access your information from anywhere, at any time, making your systems. Our managed cloud computing services help you store and manage your data and applications online. You can access your information from anywhere, at any time, making your systems secure. Our software performance testing services thoroughly test your software to find and fix any issues before it goes live, ensuring your software is reliable, user-friendly, and free of bugs. Fix any ongoing issues, update features, and ensure everything works as expected with our software maintenance services. We ensure that your software stays reliable and up-to-date everyday. Fix an issues and update features to ensure everything works as expected with our software maintenance services. We ensure that your software stays reliable and up-to-date everyday. Our product engineering service teams work with you to design, build, and refine your product, making sure it meets all your requirements. So, let us handle everything from initial ideas to final touches. Our managed cloud computing services help you store and manage your data and applications online. You can access your information from anywhere, at any time, making your systems secure. Fix any issue and update features to ensure everything works as expected with our software maintenance services. We ensure that your software stays reliable and up-to-date everyday. Fix any issue and update features to ensure everything works as expected with our software maintenance services. We ensure that your software stays reliable and up-to-date everyday. IT consulting involves providing expert advice and guidance to businesses on how to leverage technology to achieve their goals. So, avail our IT staff augmentation service and develop your business. We offer Custom Application Development services that build solutions made specifically for you. We build new apps from scratch or enhance existing ones, that ensure seamless operations.

devops: DevOps | Azure DevOps | DevOps Automation Tools What is DevOps | DevOps Engineer | Agile DevOps DevOps Tools | DevOps Automation | AWS DevOps DevOps Certification | DevOps Automation Tools DevOps Services | Cloud DevOps | DevOps Solutions Our DevOps CICD Pipelines make it easy to automate the building, testing, and deployment of applications across different platforms and environments. Whether you’re working with cloud-based apps or older systems, DevOps CICD pipelines help your team automate these processes efficiently. Our DevOps services can show you how to improve your software development processes and deliver high-quality software faster. Find answers to all your queries about DevOps Consulting Services here, if you have any more questions, contact us today! Azure DevOps Pipelines automate the building, testing, and deployment of applications across various platforms and environments. From cloud-native applications to legacy systems, Azure DevOps Pipelines empower your team to automate builds, tests, and deployments with ease. Everything You Need to Know about DevOps Consulting Services. Azure DevOps Pipelines automate the building, testing, and deployment of applications across various platforms and environments. From cloud-native applications to legacy systems, Azure DevOps Pipelines empower your team to automate builds, tests, and deployments with ease. Learn how our DevOps consulting services can help you improve your software development process and deliver high-quality software faster. Azure DevOps Pipelines automate the building, testing, and deployment of applications across various platforms and environments. From cloud-native applications to legacy systems, Azure DevOps Pipelines empower your team to automate builds, tests, and deployments with ease. Learn how our DevOps consulting services can help you improve your software development process and deliver high-quality software faster. Azure DevOps Pipelines make it easy to automate the building, testing, and deployment of applications across different platforms and environments. Whether you’re working with cloud-based apps or older systems, Azure DevOps pipelines help your team automate these processes efficiently. Our DevOps services can show you how to improve your software development process and deliver high-quality software faster. Azure DevOps Pipelines make it easy to automate the building, testing, and deployment of applications across different platforms and environments. Whether you’re working with cloud-based apps or older systems, Azure DevOps pipelines help your team automate these processes efficiently. Our DevOps services can show you how to improve your software development process and deliver high-quality software faster. Azure DevOps Pipelines make it easy to automate the building, testing, and deployment of applications across different platforms and environments. Whether you’re working with cloud-based apps or older systems, Azure DevOps pipelines help your team automate these processes efficiently. Our DevOps services can show you how to improve your software development process and deliver high-quality software faster. At Arpatech, performance consulting in DevOps services involves assessing current processes, identifying bottlenecks, and focus on optimization that improve performance for effective software delivery. Infrastructure as Code (IaC) automates and streamlines your infrastructure, our DevOps team uses IaC to effortlessly automate provisioning, bring consistent environments, and recover disasters quickly. Our DevOps team continuously monitors your cloud environment and offers to fine-tune tasks that help you automate operations, achieve faster time-to-market, and reduce costs. We also offer server-based solutions that run on remote servers rather than on local computers or devices. This ensures that your server infrastructure is secure, scalable, and reliable. Our DevOps services utilize containerization and orchestration that work together to enable scalable deployment and management of applications in a distributed computing environment. Our DevOps consulting service also offers you in-depth reports and analytics that give you valuable insights into your system performance, allowing you to make successful data-driven decisions. Performance consulting in DevOps involves assessing current processes, identifying bottlenecks, and continuously improving performance for effective software delivery. Infrastructure as Code (IaC) involves using declarative or imperative code to describe infrastructure resources, configurations, and dependencies. Cloud infrastructure management aims to effectively utilize cloud resources to meet the needs of applications and workloads, while ensuring reliability and security. Server-based solutions run on remote servers rather than on local computers or devices. They offer benefits such as scalability, accessibility, and cost savings. Containerization and orchestration work together to enable scalable deployment and management of applications in a distributed computing environment. Reports and analytics provide insights that can help identify opportunities, optimize processes, mitigate risks, and guide strategic planning. At Arpatech, Our DevOps services offer you performance consulting by focusing on optimizing your IT systems and applications to ensure peak performance and efficiency. From assessment to implementation, our team utilizes advanced monitoring tools and technologies to deliver optimal solutions. With Infrastructure as Code (IaC) to streamline and automate the management of your IT infrastructure, our DevOps team is able to effortlessly automate provisioning, bring consistent environments, and recover disasters quickly. At Arpatech, Our DevOps services offer you performance consulting, focused on optimization that ensure peak performance and efficiency. From assessment to implementation, our team utilizes advanced monitoring tools and technologies to deliver optimal solutions. At Arpatech, performance consulting in DevOps services involves assessing current processes, identifying bottlenecks, and focus on optimization that improve performance for effective software delivery Infrastructure as Code (IaC) to streamline and automate the management of your IT infrastructure, our DevOps team is able to effortlessly automate provisioning, bring consistent environments, and recover disasters quickly. Infrastructure as Code (IaC) automates and streamlines your IT infrastructure, our DevOps team uses IaC to effortlessly automate provisioning, bring consistent environments, and recover disasters quickly.

digital: Digital Marketing | Digital Marketing Consultant SEO Services | Digital Marketing Firm PPC Services | Email Marketing Service Social Media Marketing | Digital Marketing Specialist SEO Services | Digital Marketing Firm | PPC Services Email Marketing Service | Social Media Marketing Digital Marketing Specialist | Content Marketing Thrive by Unlocking Your Full Potential We take pride in using data-driven and highly targeted strategies to help your business achieve organic growth, increase visibility, and attract high-quality traffic to your website. Our effective digital marketing approaches are designed to build brand recognition, generate valuable leads, and significantly boost revenue. Additionally, if you need assistance with designing a website for your startup, we offer a comprehensive range of services, from creating effective website designs to developing advanced e-commerce platforms. We take great pride in employing data-driven and highly targeted strategies, designed to help you attain organic growth, enhance visibility, and drive high-quality traffic to your website. Through our exceptional and result-oriented digital marketing approaches, we enable your business to establish brand recognition, generate valuable leads, and significantly boost revenue. Need help designing a website for your startup? We offer a wide range of website design services, from creating a simple landing page to developing a full-blown e-commerce platform. Find answers to all your queries about our Digital Marketing Services here, if you have any more questions, contactus today! Everything You Need to Know about DevOps Consulting Services. Everything You Need to Know about Digital Marketing Services. Power Up Your Brand with Groundbreaking Digital Marketing Strategies Your Brand with Groundbreaking Digital Marketing Strategies Get ready to break your digital marketing barriers We take great pride in employing data-driven and highly targeted strategies, designed to help you attain organic growth, enhance visibility, and drive high-quality traffic to your website. Through our exceptional and result-oriented digital marketing approaches, we enable your business to establish brand recognition, generate valuable leads, and significantly boost revenue. Everything You Need to Know About Digital Marketing Services. Get ready to break your digital marketing barriers, and experience impressive returns on your investment— all with the expert guidance of a team of skilled digital marketing specialists. Get ready to break your digital marketing barriers, overcome growth bottlenecks, and experience impressive returns on your investment—all with the expert guidance of a team of skilled digital marketing specialists. Get ready to break your digital marketing barriers, overcome growth bottlenecks, and experience impressive returns on your investment—all with the expert guidance of a team of skilled digital marketing specialists. Get ready to break your digital marketing barriers, overcome growth bottlenecks, and experience impressive returns on your investment—all with the expert guidance of a team of skilled digital marketing specialists. Digital Marketing | Digital Marketing Consultant | SEO Services | Digital Marketing Firm | PPC Services | Email Marketing Service | Social Media Marketing | Digital Marketing Specialist Digital Marketing | Digital Marketing Consultant | SEO Services | Digital Marketing Firm | PPC Services | Email Marketing Service | We take great pride in employing data-driven and highly targeted strategies, designed to help you attain organic growth, enhance visibility, and drive high-quality traffic to your website,. Through our exceptional and result-oriented digital marketing approaches, we enable your business to establish brand recognition, generate valuable leads, and significantly boost revenue. We take great pride in employing data-driven and highly targeted strategies, designed to help you attain organic growth, enhance visibility, and drive high-quality traffic to your website. Through our exceptional and result-oriented digital marketing approaches, we enable your business to establish brand recognition, generate valuable leads, and significantly boost revenue. Need help designing a website for your startup? We offer a wide range of website design services, from creating a simple landing page to developing a full blown e-commerce platform. We take great pride in employing data-driven and highly targeted strategies, designed to help you attain organic growth, enhance visibility, and drive high-quality traffic to your website. Through our exceptional and result-oriented digital marketing approaches, we enable your business to establish brand recognition, generate valuable leads, and significantly boost revenue. Need help designing a website for your startup? We offer a wide range of website design services, from creating a simple landing page to developing a full-blown e-commerce platform. We take great pride in employing data-driven and highly targeted strategies, designed to help you attain organic growth, enhance visibility, and drive high-quality traffic to your website. Through our exceptional and result-oriented digital marketing approaches, we enable your business to establish brand recognition, generate valuable leads, and significantly boost revenue. Need help designing a website for your startup? We offer a wide range of website design services, from creating a simple landing page to developing a full-blown e-commerce platform. We take pride in using data-driven and highly targeted strategies to help your business achieve organic growth, increase visibility, and attract high-quality traffic to your website. Our effective digital marketing approaches are designed to build brand recognition, generate valuable leads, and significantly boost revenue. Additionally, if you need assistance with designing a website for your startup, we offer a comprehensive range of services, from creating effective website designs to developing advanced e-commerce platforms. increase in website rankings for Client

distinctive: We handle everything from financial transactions, including bookkeeping and budgeting, to financial reporting. Our Finance and Accounting ensure precise and compliant financial records, allowing you to succeed in other business areas. Our Customer Support BPO involves handling tasks from scheduling and email management to administrative support and customer service. With our support, you can streamline operations, enhance productivity, and ensure that your daily tasks are managed effectively. We provide you with valuable insights from vast data pools, empowering your company to make informed decisions and supercharge efficiency. We provide you with valuable insights from vast data pools, empowering your company to make informed decisions and supercharge efficiency. We set up and manage support centers that provide personalized Support service, handling inquiries, troubleshooting issues, and ensuring your clients receive the help they need. With our customized approach, your customers experience high-quality support that aligns perfectly with your brand. Our Catalog Management service helps your firm keep product listings organized and up-to-date. We handle tasks like adding new products, updating descriptions, and managing inventory across your online platforms. Our Vendor Management service helps your firm effectively oversee and coordinate relationships with suppliers. We handle everything from vendor selection and contract management to performance monitoring and communication. Arpatech’s Service Delivery Management service ensures that your firm’s services are provided efficiently and effectively. We oversee the entire service delivery process, from planning and execution to monitoring and improvement. With reliable data entry and data processing solutions, that help streamline your operations, we ensure you get valuable insights from vast data pools that empower your company to make informed decisions and supercharge efficiency. Data Processing is the manipulation and transformation of data through various processes like sorting, filtering, and summarizing. Data Entry refers to the manual entering of data into a system or database. Encompassing the management of financial transactions, including bookkeeping, budgeting, and financial reporting, Finance and Accounting ensure precise and compliant financial records. Essentially intended to deliver qualified candidates to potential employers, Recruitment Process Outsourcing involves the practice of an employer delegating to a third-party service provider the task of locating potential employees. IT Help Desk & Technical Support IT Help Desk & Technical Support are key services provided to users facing issues with their computer systems, software, networks, or other IT-related components. The term "back-office support" describes the administrative and operational tasks carried out within a company but usually away from direct contact with clients. Key components of decision-making and problem-solving processes across various industries and fields. Research & Analytics involve the systematic collection, interpretation, and evaluation of data. Our BPO analytics services are key components of decision-making and problem-solving processes across various industries and fields. We conduct thorough research and perform detailed analyses to help you understand market trends, customer behavior, and business performance. Essentially intended to deliver qualified candidates to potential employers, Our BPO Recruitment Process involves managing the entire recruitment for you. By outsourcing your recruitment to us, you can focus on your core business, enabling you to save time and resources. IT Help Desk and Technical Support Arpatech’s IT Help Desk BPO solutions and Technical Support are key services that help to users facing issues with their computer systems, software, networks, or other IT-related components. We resolve your problems quickly, enabling you to have seamless operations. Our comprehensive back-office BPO support helps you run all behind-the-scenes operations effectively. From administrative support to data management, we do it all, allowing your team to focus on all front-end processes. Content Creation & Management refer to the process of planning, producing, distributing, and maintaining various types of content to meet specific goals and engage target audiences. Virtual Assistance involves the provision of various services remotely by a virtual assistant (VA). A virtual assistant typically works independently, interacting with clients using digital tools of communication. Encompassing several aspects of online selling, Ecommerce Support refers to the range of services and assistance provided to companies or individuals involved in electronic commerce (ecommerce). Integral components of the software development life cycle, Software Development & Testing involve the creation, implementation, and corroboration of software systems to meet specific requirements. Encompassing several aspects of online selling, Ecommerce Support refers to the range of services and assistance provided to companies or individuals involved in electronic commerce (e-commerce). Integral components of the software development life cycle, Software Development & Testing involve the creation, implementation, and validation of software systems to meet specific requirements. Encompassing the management of financial transactions, including bookkeeping, budgeting, and financial reporting, Finance and Accounting ensure precise and compliant financial records. operational 36 days with 24/7 multilingual support available via email, phone, and chat. Round-the-clock coverage with specialized areas of operation. E-Commerce catalog & IT product catalog management. Global supply chain management, contracts management, reseller escalation, and sourcing. Leveraging the best resources, we provide client management, monthly reporting, QBR, and escalation handling. We provide you with valuable insights from vast data pools, empowering your company to make informed decisions and supercharge efficiency. Key components of decision-making and problem-solving processes across various industries and fields. Research & Analytics involve the systematic collection, interpretation, and evaluation of data. From IT consulting to product engineering, we design and develop various custom software and leverage the best testing procedures to ensure functionality and security. Essentially intended to deliver qualified candidates to potential employers, Recruitment Process Outsourcing involves the practice of an employer delegating to a third-party service provider the task of locating potential employees. IT Help Desk & Technical Support are key services provided to users facing issues with their computer systems, software, networks, or other IT-related components. The term "back-office support" describes the administrative and operational tasks carried out within a company but usually away from direct contact with clients. Integral components of the software development life cycle, Software Development & Testing involve the creation, implementation, and corroboration of software systems to meet specific requirements. Integral components of the software development life cycle, Software Development & Testing involve the creation, implementation, and corroboration of software systems to meet specific requirements.

do: As they say, it takes two to tango! Just tell us your specific needs and we will come up with an innovative solution that will not only meet your objectives but will also help you set apart from your competitors. As they say, it takes two to tango! Tell us your specific requirements and we will collaborate with you on an innovative solution that aligns with your objectives. With the right application, you will be able to set your products apart from your competitors effectively.

efficient: The pricing list area of the portal is available to the company’s consultants. Simple management, download, removal, and access to price sheets. Streamlined pricing procedures to ensure consultants provide clients with accurate, current information.

faq: We help you create custom mobile apps for Android and iOS devices. We help you create custom mobile apps for Android and iOS devices. We help you create custom mobile apps for Android and iOS devices. We help you create custom mobile apps for Android and iOS devices. We help you create custom mobile apps for Android and iOS devices. What are the key components of a business intelligence system? A typical business intelligence system comprises the following components: Data Sources, Data Integration, Data Analysis, Data Visualization, Reporting and Dashboards, Collaboration and Sharing, and Data Governance and Security. What are the benefits of business intelligence? Business intelligence offers several benefits to organizations, including improved decision-making, enhanced operational efficiency, increased revenue and profitability, improved data governance, and self-service analytics. What are some popular business intelligence tools? There are several business intelligence tools available in the market. Some popular ones include: Microsoft Power BI, Tableau, QlikSense, Dundas BI, and Sisense,. Anim pariatur cliche reprehenderit, enim eiusmod high life accusamus terry richardson ad squid. 3 wolf moon officia aute, non cupidatat skateboard dolor brunch. Food truck quinoa nesciunt laborum eiusmod. Brunch 3 wolf moon tempor, sunt aliqua put a bird on it squid single-origin coffee nulla assumenda shoreditch et. Nihil anim keffiyeh helvetica, craft beer labore wes anderson cred nesciunt sapiente ea proident. Ad vegan excepteur butcher vice lomo. Leggings occaecat craft beer farm-to-table, raw denim aesthetic synth nesciunt you probably haven't heard of them accusamus labore sustainable VHS. Anim pariatur cliche reprehenderit, enim eiusmod high life accusamus terry richardson ad squid. 3 wolf moon officia aute, non cupidatat skateboard dolor brunch. Food truck quinoa nesciunt laborum eiusmod. Brunch 3 wolf moon tempor, sunt aliqua put a bird on it squid single-origin coffee nulla assumenda shoreditch et. Nihil anim keffiyeh helvetica, craft beer labore wes anderson cred nesciunt sapiente ea proident. Ad vegan excepteur butcher vice lomo. Leggings occaecat craft beer farm-to-table, raw denim aesthetic synth nesciunt you probably haven't heard of them accusamus labore sustainable VHS. Business intelligence offers several benefits to organizations, including improved decision-making, enhanced operational efficiency, increased revenue and profitability, improved data governance, self-service analytics. What are the benefits of DevOps? When you integrate DevOps, it brings several benefits to organizations, including faster software delivery, improved quality, enhanced collaboration, increased efficiency, and better customer satisfaction. What are some common DevOps tools and technologies? There are several popular DevOps tools and technologies available in the market, including: Version control systems, such as Git, Subversion (SVN), and Mercurial Continuous integration (CI) tools, such as Jenkins, Azure DevOps Pipelines, and CircleCI Configuration management tools, such as Ansible, Chef, and Puppet Containerization platforms, such as Docker and Kubernetes. Infrastructure-as-code (IaC) tools, such as Terraform and CloudFormation. Monitoring and logging tools, such as Prometheus, ELK Stack (Elasticsearch, Logstash, Kibana), and New Relic Collaboration and communication tools, such as Slack, Microsoft Teams, and Jira What are some best practices for DevOps? Some best practices for DevOps includes: Establishing a DevOps culture Automating processes Implementing CI/CD Using version control Implementing security best practices Monitoring and logging Continuous learning and improvement How can DevOps services benefit you? Arpatech’s DevOps consulting services are key to modern software development. Our DevOps engineers use cutting-edge technologies that support our frameworks and integrate DevOps practices into your organization. To accelerate the release of your product, we automate your cloud infrastructure and business processes while assuring continuous integration and delivery. Our market-proven DevOps best practices and industry-leading DevOps services help companies launch feature-rich products more quickly and affordably. What are the benefits of implementing DevOps? Implementing DevOps can bring several benefits to organizations, including faster software delivery, improved quality, enhanced collaboration, increased efficiency, and better customer satisfaction. Anim pariatur cliche reprehenderit, enim eiusmod high life accusamus terry richardson ad squid. 3 wolf moon officia aute, non cupidatat skateboard dolor brunch. Food truck quinoa nesciunt laborum eiusmod. Brunch 3 wolf moon tempor, sunt aliqua put a bird on it squid single-origin coffee nulla assumenda shoreditch et. Nihil anim keffiyeh helvetica, craft beer labore wes anderson cred nesciunt sapiente ea proident. Ad vegan excepteur butcher vice lomo. Leggings occaecat craft beer farm-to-table, raw denim aesthetic synth nesciunt you probably haven't heard of them accusamus labore sustainable VHS. What are some best practices for implementing DevOps? Anim pariatur cliche reprehenderit, enim eiusmod high life accusamus terry richardson ad squid. 3 wolf moon officia aute, non cupidatat skateboard dolor brunch. Food truck quinoa nesciunt laborum eiusmod. Brunch 3 wolf moon tempor, sunt aliqua put a bird on it squid single-origin coffee nulla assumenda shoreditch et. Nihil anim keffiyeh helvetica, craft beer labore wes anderson cred nesciunt sapiente ea proident. Ad vegan excepteur butcher vice lomo. Leggings occaecat craft beer farm-to-table, raw denim aesthetic synth nesciunt you probably haven't heard of them accusamus labore sustainable VHS. Anim pariatur cliche reprehenderit, enim eiusmod high life accusamus terry richardson ad squid. 3 wolf moon officia aute, non cupidatat skateboard dolor brunch. Food truck quinoa nesciunt laborum eiusmod. Brunch 3 wolf moon tempor, sunt aliqua put a bird on it squid single-origin coffee nulla assumenda shoreditch et. Nihil anim keffiyeh helvetica, craft beer labore wes anderson cred nesciunt sapiente ea proident. Ad vegan excepteur butcher vice lomo. Leggings occaecat craft beer farm-to-table, raw denim aesthetic synth nesciunt you probably haven't heard of them accusamus labore sustainable VHS. There are several popular DevOps tools and technologies available in the market, including: Version control systems, such as Git, Subversion (SVN), and Mercurial. Continuous integration (CI) tools, such as Jenkins, Azure DevOps Pipelines, and CircleCI. Configuration management tools, such as Ansible, Chef, and Puppet. Containerization platforms, such as Docker and Kubernetes. Infrastructure-as-code (IaC) tools, such as Terraform and CloudFormation. Monitoring and logging tools, such as Prometheus, ELK Stack (Elasticsearch, Logstash, Kibana), and New Relic. Collaboration and communication tools, such as Slack, Microsoft Teams, and Jira. There are several popular DevOps tools and technologies available in the market, including: Our DevOps approach puts together all the tools and practices you need to expedite software delivery. We work with clients to establish friction-less operational environments and use secure coding techniques. Our operations and development procedures are based on current industry standards, enabling you to create an action plan that automates cloud infrastructure, speeds up software delivery, and instills a DevOps mindset in your company with the help of our top-notch engineers. Some best practices for implementing DevOps include: Arpatech’s DevOps consulting services are key to modern software development. Our DevOps engineers use cutting-edge technologies that support our frameworks and integrate DevOps practices into your organization. In order to accelerate the release of your product, we automate your cloud infrastructure and business processes while assuring continuous integration and delivery. Our market-proven DevOps best practices and industry-leading DevOps services help companies launch feature-rich products more quickly and affordably. Our DevOps approach puts together all DevOps tools and practices you need to expedite software delivery. We work with clients to establish friction-less operational environments and use secure coding techniques. Our operations and development procedures are based on current industry standards, enabling you to create an action plan that automates cloud infrastructure, speeds up software delivery, and instills a DevOps mindset in your company with the help of our top-notch engineers. There are several popular DevOps tools and technologies available in the market, including: Version control systems, such as Git, Subversion (SVN), and Mercurial. Continuous integration (CI) tools, such as Jenkins, Azure DevOps Pipelines, and CircleCI. Configuration management tools, such as Ansible, Chef, and Puppet. Containerization platforms, such as Docker and Kubernetes. Infrastructure-as-code (IaC) tools, such as Terraform and CloudFormation. Monitoring and logging tools, such as Prometheus, ELK Stack (Elasticsearch, Logstash, Kibana), and New Relic. Collaboration and communication tools, such as Slack, Microsoft Teams, and Jira. Some best practices for implementing DevOps include: Establishing a DevOps culture: DevOps is not just about tools, but also about fostering a collaborative culture of shared ownership, accountability, and continuous improvement across development, operations, and other stakeholders. Automating processes: Automation of repetitive tasks, such as builds, tests, and deployments, helps reduce manual effort, minimize errors, and ensure consistency and repeatability. Implementing CI/CD: Continuous integration (CI) and continuous delivery (CD) are core DevOps practices that involve automating the build, test, and release processes, enabling faster and more reliable software deliveries. Using version control: Version control systems, such as Git, are critical for enabling collaborative development, maintaining code integrity, and facilitating rollbacks and roll-forwards. Implementing security best practices: Security should be integrated into the DevOps processes from the beginning, with practices such as automated security testing, vulnerability scanning, and secure configuration management. Monitoring and logging: Implementing robust monitoring and logging practices allows for proactive issue detection and resolution, leading to improved software quality and reliability. Continuous learning and improvement: DevOps encourages a culture of continuous learning, feedback, and improvement, with regular retrospectives and post-mortems to identify areas for enhancement and implement changes iteratively. Some best practices for implementing DevOps include: Establishing a DevOps culture Automating processes Implementing CI/CD Using version control Implementing security best practices Monitoring and logging Continuous learning and improvement Some best practices for implementing DevOps include: Establishing a DevOps culture Automating processes Implementing CI/CD Using version control Implementing security best practices Monitoring and logging Continuous learning and improvement How can digital marketing benefit my business? Digital marketing is beneficial as it allows businesses to reach a wider audience, engage with customers, and generate leads resulting in higher revenue. With the increasing use of digital devices and online platforms, businesses that fail to leverage digital marketing risk being left behind by their competitors. What is the expected duration to see results of digital marketing? The timeline for seeing results from digital marketing depends on many factors such as the specific strategy being used, the industry being targeted, and the objective of the campaign. We can simply not predict the exact duration. How can I measure the success of my digital marketing campaigns? We use a variety of metrics to measure the success of digital marketing campaigns, such as website traffic, conversion rates, social media engagement, and ROI. Using tools like Google Analytics provides us with valuable data for analyzing campaign performance. Do I need a digital marketing agency to handle my digital marketing? Because of the very nature of how digital marketing companies operate, they frequently have an advantage because they have access to more experienced marketers. Contact the top digital marketing company, Arpatech. Its team of specialists knows how to communicate with you successfully to understand your business objectives and translate them into marketing strategies that will produce high ROAS. Anim pariatur cliche reprehenderit, enim eiusmod high life accusamus terry richardson ad squid. 3 wolf moon officia aute, non cupidatat skateboard dolor brunch. Food truck quinoa nesciunt laborum eiusmod. Brunch 3 wolf moon tempor, sunt aliqua put a bird on it squid single-origin coffee nulla assumenda shoreditch et. Nihil anim keffiyeh helvetica, craft beer labore wes anderson cred nesciunt sapiente ea proident. Ad vegan excepteur butcher vice lomo. Leggings occaecat craft beer farm-to-table, raw denim aesthetic synth nesciunt you probably haven't heard of them accusamus labore sustainable VHS. Anim pariatur cliche reprehenderit, enim eiusmod high life accusamus terry richardson ad squid. 3 wolf moon officia aute, non cupidatat skateboard dolor brunch. Food truck quinoa nesciunt laborum eiusmod. Brunch 3 wolf moon tempor, sunt aliqua put a bird on it squid single-origin coffee nulla assumenda shoreditch et. Nihil anim keffiyeh helvetica, craft beer labore wes anderson cred nesciunt sapiente ea proident. Ad vegan excepteur butcher vice lomo. Leggings occaecat craft beer farm-to-table, raw denim aesthetic synth nesciunt you probably haven't heard of them accusamus labore sustainable VHS. Anim pariatur cliche reprehenderit, enim eiusmod high life accusamus terry richardson ad squid. 3 wolf moon officia aute, non cupidatat skateboard dolor brunch. Food truck quinoa nesciunt laborum eiusmod. Brunch 3 wolf moon tempor, sunt aliqua put a bird on it squid single-origin coffee nulla assumenda shoreditch et. Nihil anim keffiyeh helvetica, craft beer labore wes anderson cred nesciunt sapiente ea proident. Ad vegan excepteur butcher vice lomo. Leggings occaecat craft beer farm-to-table, raw denim aesthetic synth nesciunt you probably haven't heard of them accusamus labore sustainable VHS. IT staff augmentation is a business strategy where a company temporarily hires external IT specialists or teams to supplement their in-house expertise. These professionals work along with the company's in-house IT staff to address specific project needs or skills gaps. What types of IT roles can be filled through staff augmentation? IT staff augmentation can fill a broad range of roles, including but not limited to software developers and engineers, web and mobile app developers, data analysts and scientists, quality assurance testers, IT infrastructure and network engineers, project managers, cybersecurity specialists, system administrators, business analysts, and UI/UX designers. Is IT staff augmentation suitable for short-term projects only? No, it is possible to use IT staff augmentation for both short-term and long-term initiatives. It gives you the option to hire experts for a certain amount of time, such as a few weeks or months, as well as for longer periods of time or continuing support. The engagement period can be adjusted based on the demands of the project and the needs of the business. What are the potential challenges of IT staff augmentation? While there are many potential problems of IT staff augmentation, some major challenges include unclear goals and general expectations, poor communication and project management, inadequate transfer of institutional knowledge, security issues, and a lack of contract management. Anim pariatur cliche reprehenderit, enim eiusmod high life accusamus terry richardson ad squid. 3 wolf moon officia aute, non cupidatat skateboard dolor brunch. Food truck quinoa nesciunt laborum eiusmod. Brunch 3 wolf moon tempor, sunt aliqua put a bird on it squid single-origin coffee nulla assumenda shoreditch et. Nihil anim keffiyeh helvetica, craft beer labore wes anderson cred nesciunt sapiente ea proident. Ad vegan excepteur butcher vice lomo. Leggings occaecat craft beer farm-to-table, raw denim aesthetic synth nesciunt you probably haven't heard of them accusamus labore sustainable VHS. Anim pariatur cliche reprehenderit, enim eiusmod high life accusamus terry richardson ad squid. 3 wolf moon officia aute, non cupidatat skateboard dolor brunch. Food truck quinoa nesciunt laborum eiusmod. Brunch 3 wolf moon tempor, sunt aliqua put a bird on it squid single-origin coffee nulla assumenda shoreditch et. Nihil anim keffiyeh helvetica, craft beer labore wes anderson cred nesciunt sapiente ea proident. Ad vegan excepteur butcher vice lomo. Leggings occaecat craft beer farm-to-table, raw denim aesthetic synth nesciunt you probably haven't heard of them accusamus labore sustainable VHS. Anim pariatur cliche reprehenderit, enim eiusmod high life accusamus terry richardson ad squid. 3 wolf moon officia aute, non cupidatat skateboard dolor brunch. Food truck quinoa nesciunt laborum eiusmod. Brunch 3 wolf moon tempor, sunt aliqua put a bird on it squid single-origin coffee nulla assumenda shoreditch et. Nihil anim keffiyeh helvetica, craft beer labore wes anderson cred nesciunt sapiente ea proident. Ad vegan excepteur butcher vice lomo. Leggings occaecat craft beer farm-to-table, raw denim aesthetic synth nesciunt you probably haven't heard of them accusamus labore sustainable VHS. What are the benefits of using a managed cloud services? There are several benefits to using a managed cloud service, including: Simplified infrastructure management and business agility High scalability to handle increased traffic or resource demands Improved system availability and automatic upgrades Exceptional network security and disaster recovery 24/7 technical support and assistance What are the benefits of using a managed cloud hosting platform? There are several benefits to using a managed cloud hosting platform, including: . Simplified infrastructure management and setup. . High scalability to handle increased traffic or resource demands. . Better reliability and uptime through redundant infrastructure. . Improved security measures and regular updates. . 24/7 technical support and assistance. There are several benefits to using a managed cloud hosting platform, including: . Simplified infrastructure management and setup. . High scalability to handle increased traffic or resource demands. . Better reliability and uptime through redundant infrastructure. . Improved security measures and regular updates. . 24/7 technical support and assistance. What is the difference between managed and hosted cloud? A managed cloud involves the provider taking on additional responsibilities, such as software maintenance, updates, and security, allowing you to focus more on your business needs with less administrative overhead. In contrast, a hosted cloud refers to a cloud environment where the provider manages the infrastructure, but you handle the software, applications, and data. This offers greater control and flexibility but requires more hands-on management. Essentially, managed cloud services provide a more hands-off approach compared to the more self-managed nature of hosted cloud solutions Which cloud providers are typically supported by managed cloud services? Major cloud providers like Amazon Web Services (AWS), Microsoft Azure, Google Cloud Platform (GCP), and occasionally other providers like DigitalOcean or IBM Cloud are frequently supported by managed cloud services. What security measures are in place with managed cloud hosting platforms? Managed cloud hosting platforms place a high priority on security and use various measures to safeguard your infrastructure and data. Firewalls, DDoS protection, intrusion detection systems, routine security upgrades, SSL certificates, and tools for detecting possible threats are a few examples. Can I migrate my current applications or websites to a managed cloud platform? Yes, the majority of managed cloud platforms provide for the migration of current websites or apps. To assist you in smoothly moving your data and apps from your current environment to the managed cloud platform. How is managed cloud hosting different from traditional hosting? Anim pariatur cliche reprehenderit, enim eiusmod high life accusamus terry richardson ad squid. 3 wolf moon officia aute, non cupidatat skateboard dolor brunch. Food truck quinoa nesciunt laborum eiusmod. Brunch 3 wolf moon tempor, sunt aliqua put a bird on it squid single-origin coffee nulla assumenda shoreditch et. Nihil anim keffiyeh helvetica, craft beer labore wes anderson cred nesciunt sapiente ea proident. Ad vegan excepteur butcher vice lomo. Leggings occaecat craft beer farm-to-table, raw denim aesthetic synth nesciuntyou probably haven't heard of them accusamus labore sustainable VHS. Which cloud providers are typically supported by managed cloud hosting platforms? Anim pariatur cliche reprehenderit, enim eiusmod high life accusamus terry richardson ad squid. 3 wolf moon officia aute, non cupidatat skateboard dolor brunch. Food truck quinoa nesciunt laborum eiusmod. Brunch 3 wolf moon tempor, sunt aliqua put a bird on it squid single-origin coffee nulla assumenda shoreditch et. Nihil anim keffiyeh helvetica, craft beer labore wes anderson cred nesciunt sapiente ea proident. Ad vegan excepteur butcher vice lomo. Leggings occaecat craft beer farm-to-table, raw denim aesthetic synth nesciuntyou probably haven't heard of them accusamus labore sustainable VHS. Anim pariatur cliche reprehenderit, enim eiusmod high life accusamus terry richardson ad squid. 3 wolf moon officia aute, non cupidatat skateboard dolor brunch. Food truck quinoa nesciunt laborum eiusmod. Brunch 3 wolf moon tempor, sunt aliqua put a bird on it squid single-origin coffee nulla assumenda shoreditch et. Nihil anim keffiyeh helvetica, craft beer labore wes anderson cred nesciunt sapiente ea proident. Ad vegan excepteur butcher vice lomo. Leggings occaecat craft beer farm-to-table, raw denim aesthetic synth nesciuntyou probably haven't heard of them accusamus labore sustainable VHS. Can I migrate my current applications or websites to a managed cloud hosting platform? Anim pariatur cliche reprehenderit, enim eiusmod high life accusamus terry richardson ad squid. 3 wolf moon officia aute, non cupidatat skateboard dolor brunch. Food truck quinoa nesciunt laborum eiusmod. Brunch 3 wolf moon tempor, sunt aliqua put a bird on it squid single-origin coffee nulla assumenda shoreditch et. Nihil anim keffiyeh helvetica, craft beer labore wes anderson cred nesciunt sapiente ea proident. Ad vegan excepteur butcher vice lomo. Leggings occaecat craft beer farm-to-table, raw denim aesthetic synth nesciuntyou probably haven't heard of them accusamus labore sustainable VHS. Unlike managed cloud hosting, which takes care of the underlying infrastructure and technical aspects for you, traditional hosting requires you to manage and maintain your own server infrastructure. Compared to conventional hosting solutions, managed cloud hosting provides more scalability, flexibility, and ease of management. Major cloud providers like Amazon Web Services (AWS), Microsoft Azure, Google Cloud Platform (GCP), and occasionally other providers like DigitalOcean or IBM Cloud are frequently supported by managed cloud hosting platforms. Yes, the majority of managed cloud hosting systems allow for the migration of current websites or apps. To assist you in smoothly moving your data and apps from your current hosting environment to the managed cloud platform, they frequently offer tools, documentation, and guidance. Yes, the majority of managed cloud systems allow for the migration of current websites or apps. To assist you in smoothly moving your data and apps from your current hosting environment to the managed cloud platform, they frequently offer tools, documentation, and guidance. There are several benefits to using a managed cloud service, including: Simplified infrastructure management and business agility. High scalability to handle increased traffic or resource demands. Improved system availability and automatic upgrades. Exceptional network security and disaster recovery. 24/7 technical support and assistance. Yes, the majority of managed cloud platforms provide for the migration of current websites or apps. To assist you in smoothly moving your data and apps from your current environment to the managed cloud platform. A hosted cloud refers to a cloud environment where the provider manages the infrastructure, but you handle the software, applications, and data. This offers greater control and flexibility but requires more hands-on management. In contrast, a managed cloud involves the provider taking on additional responsibilities, such as software maintenance, updates, and security, allowing you to focus more on your business needs with less administrative overhead. Essentially, managed cloud services provide a more hands-off approach compared to the more self-managed nature of hosted cloud solutions. A hosted cloud refers to a cloud environment where the provider manages the infrastructure, but you handle the software, applications, and data. This offers greater control and flexibility but requires more hands-on management. In contrast, a managed cloud involves the provider taking on additional responsibilities, such as software maintenance, updates, and security, allowing you to focus more on your business needs with less administrative overhead. Essentially, managed cloud services provide a more hands-off approach compared to the more self-managed nature of hosted cloud solutions. A hosted cloud refers to a cloud environment where the provider manages the infrastructure, but you handle the software, applications, and data. This offers greater control and flexibility but requires more hands-on management. In contrast, a managed cloud involves the provider taking on additional responsibilities, such as software maintenance, updates, and security, allowing you to focus more on your business needs with less administrative overhead. Essentially, managed cloud services provide a more hands-off approach compared to the more self-managed nature of hosted cloud solutions. A <b>managed cloud</b> involves the provider taking on additional responsibilities, such as software maintenance, updates, and security, allowing you to focus more on your business needs with less administrative overhead. In contrast, a <b>hosted cloud</b> refers to a cloud environment where the provider manages the infrastructure, but you handle the software, applications, and data. This offers greater control and flexibility but requires more hands-on management. Essentially, managed cloud services provide a more hands-off approach compared to the more self-managed nature of hosted cloud solutions What is the best mobile app development platform? As we have mentioned before, Arpatech developers are experts in curating the best mobile applications for your iOS and Android devices. Therefore, they are also skilled in the best mobile app development platforms, i.e. React Native, Flutter, and Xamarin. How to choose the best mobile app development company? The best mobile app development companies should be able to build apps in many different industries. But when choosing one for your brand, you should focus on your industry experience, because you don’t want your brand to be the first experiment. To ensure, you get the best, you should: Evaluate their design process Analyze the experience of their mobile app developers Go through their portfolio Go with the development company, whose ideas align with your brand and vision This way, you’ll be able to get the best mobile development services. Let’s book your appointment with the right team today. What are the main platforms for mobile app development? The main platforms for mobile app development are iOS (Apple) and Android (Google). There are also other platforms, such as Windows Phone and BlackBerry, but their market share is very small compared to iOS and Android. What are the steps in mobile app development? The steps in mobile app development typically include ideation, research, design, development, testing, and deployment. After deployment, developers may continue to update and maintain the app. How long does it take to develop a mobile app? The time it takes to develop a mobile app depends on various factors, including the complexity of the app, the platform, and the team’s experience. A simple app may take a few weeks to develop, while a more complex app may take several months or more. How do I come up with a startup idea? Finding a problem or a market gap that needs to be filled can drive the creation of a company idea. To come up with ideas, think about your own experiences, interests, and areas of competence. To validate and improve your ideas, conduct market research, speak with possible customers, and explore developing trends. How do I validate my startup idea? Anim pariatur cliche reprehenderit, enim eiusmod high life accusamus terry richardson ad squid. 3 wolf moon officia aute, non cupidatat skateboard dolor brunch. Food truck quinoa nesciunt laborum eiusmod. Brunch 3 wolf moon tempor, sunt aliqua put a bird on it squid single-origin coffee nulla assumenda shoreditch et. Nihil anim keffiyeh helvetica, craft beer labore wes anderson cred nesciunt sapiente ea proident. Ad vegan excepteur butcher vice lomo. Leggings occaecat craft beer farm-to-table, raw denim aesthetic synth nesciunt you probably haven't heard of them accusamus labore sustainable VHS. How can I fund my startup? Anim pariatur cliche reprehenderit, enim eiusmod high life accusamus terry richardson ad squid. 3 wolf moon officia aute, non cupidatat skateboard dolor brunch. Food truck quinoa nesciunt laborum eiusmod. Brunch 3 wolf moon tempor, sunt aliqua put a bird on it squid single-origin coffee nulla assumenda shoreditch et. Nihil anim keffiyeh helvetica, craft beer labore wes anderson cred nesciunt sapiente ea proident. Ad vegan excepteur butcher vice lomo. Leggings occaecat craft beer farm-to-table, raw denim aesthetic synth nesciunt you probably haven't heard of them accusamus labore sustainable VHS. How do I build a strong team for my startup? Anim pariatur cliche reprehenderit, enim eiusmod high life accusamus terry richardson ad squid. 3 wolf moon officia aute, non cupidatat skateboard dolor brunch. Food truck quinoa nesciunt laborum eiusmod. Brunch 3 wolf moon tempor, sunt aliqua put a bird on it squid single-origin coffee nulla assumenda shoreditch et. Nihil anim keffiyeh helvetica, craft beer labore wes anderson cred nesciunt sapiente ea proident. Ad vegan excepteur butcher vice lomo. Leggings occaecat craft beer farm-to-table, raw denim aesthetic synth nesciunt you probably haven't heard of them accusamus labore sustainable VHS. How can I differentiate my startup from competitors? Finding a problem or a market gap that needs to be filled can drive the creation of a company idea. To come up with ideas, think about your own experiences, interests, and areas of competence. To validate and improve your ideas, conduct market research, speak with possible customers, and explore developing trends. Mobile app development is the process of creating software applications that run on mobile devices, such as smartphones and tablets. What are the main platforms for mobile app development? The main platforms for mobile app development are iOS (Apple) and Android (Google). There are also other platforms, such as Windows Phone and BlackBerry, but their market share is very small compared to iOS and Android. What are the steps in mobile app development? The steps in mobile app development typically include ideation, research, design, development, testing, and deployment. After deployment, developers may continue to update and maintain the app. How long does it take to develop a mobile app? The time it takes to develop a mobile app depends on various factors, including the complexity of the app, the platform, and the team's experience. A simple app may take a few weeks to develop, while a more complex app may take several months or more. How much does it cost to develop a mobile app? The cost of developing a mobile app varies widely depending on various factors such as the complexity of the app, the platform, the features, and the team's experience. A simple app may cost a few thousand dollars, while a more complex app can cost hundreds of thousands of dollars. How can I promote my mobile app? There are various ways to promote a mobile app, including social media marketing, search engine optimization (SEO), influencer marketing, and paid advertising. It's important to have a well-designed app with useful features that can attract users and encourage positive reviews and word-of-mouth recommendations. The best mobile app development companies should be able to build apps in many different industries. But when choosing one for your brand, you should focus on your industry experience, because you don’t want your brand to be the first experiment. To ensure, you get the best, you should: - Evaluate their design process - Analyze the experience of their mobile app developers - Go through their portfolio - Go with the development company, whose ideas align with your brand and vision This way, you’ll be able to get the best mobile development services. Let’s book your appointment with the right team today. What are the main reasons why companies outsource their business processes? Companies outsource for a number of reasons, including cost savings, easier access to specialized skills and knowledge, enhanced productivity and efficiency, adaptability in scalability, and industry-specific solutions. What type of business processes are commonly outsourced? Customer service, IT services, human resources, finance and accounting, procurement, logistics, data entry, content moderation, and back-office tasks are among the processes that are frequently outsourced. What are the benefits of outsourcing business processes? Among the advantages of outsourcing include cost savings, improved efficiency, access to specialized skills and technology, increased scalability, reduced risk, improved focus on core tasks, and the capacity to tap into global talent and markets. What are the potential risks or challenges associated with BPO? Data security and privacy concerns, a potential loss of control over procedures, language, and cultural impediments, communication and coordination problems, dependence on the outsourcing provider, and potential backlash from job loss or displacement are just a few of the risks and difficulties that may arise. How does BPO impact job opportunities and employment? BPO can lead to job opportunities both within the company and the outsourcing service provider. New positions could be established, particularly in higher-skilled fields like management, oversight, and relationship management, while existing roles might be changed or removed. What types of business processes are commonly outsourced? Anim pariatur cliche reprehenderit, enim eiusmod high life accusamus terry richardson ad squid. 3 wolf moon officia aute, non cupidatat skateboard dolor brunch. Food truck quinoa nesciunt laborum eiusmod. Brunch 3 wolf moon tempor, sunt aliqua put a bird on it squid single-origin coffee nulla assumenda shoreditch et. Nihil anim keffiyeh helvetica, craft beer labore wes anderson cred nesciunt sapiente ea proident. Ad vegan excepteur butcher vice lomo. Leggings occaecat craft beer farm-to-table, raw denim aesthetic synth nesciunt you probably haven't heard of them accusamus labore sustainable VHS. Anim pariatur cliche reprehenderit, enim eiusmod high life accusamus terry richardson ad squid. 3 wolf moon officia aute, non cupidatat skateboard dolor brunch. Food truck quinoa nesciunt laborum eiusmod. Brunch 3 wolf moon tempor, sunt aliqua put a bird on it squid single-origin coffee nulla assumenda shoreditch et. Nihil anim keffiyeh helvetica, craft beer labore wes anderson cred nesciunt sapiente ea proident. Ad vegan excepteur butcher vice lomo. Leggings occaecat craft beer farm-to-table, raw denim aesthetic synth nesciunt you probably haven't heard of them accusamus labore sustainable VHS. Anim pariatur cliche reprehenderit, enim eiusmod high life accusamus terry richardson ad squid. 3 wolf moon officia aute, non cupidatat skateboard dolor brunch. Food truck quinoa nesciunt laborum eiusmod. Brunch 3 wolf moon tempor, sunt aliqua put a bird on it squid single-origin coffee nulla assumenda shoreditch et. Nihil anim keffiyeh helvetica, craft beer labore wes anderson cred nesciunt sapiente ea proident. Ad vegan excepteur butcher vice lomo. Leggings occaecat craft beer farm-to-table, raw denim aesthetic synth nesciunt you probably haven't heard of them accusamus labore sustainable VHS. Finding a problem or a market gap that needs to be filled can drive the creation of a company idea. To come up with ideas, think about your own experiences, interests, and areas of competence. To validate and improve your ideas, conduct market research, speak with possible customers, and explore developing trends. What are the effects of outsourcing business processes on costs? Due to differences in labor costs between nations, economies of scale, decreased infrastructure investments, and increased process efficiencies, outsourcing can result in cost savings. Companies should, however, also take other cost aspects into account, such as transfer costs and continuing monitoring expenditures. How do I choose a software development services provider? Choosing a software development services provider can be a daunting undertaking. Some factors to consider when choosing a provider include their experience and expertise in your specific industry, their ability to communicate effectively, their technical skills and knowledge, their project management capabilities, and their reputation and references. How do I choose a software development services provider? Choosing a software development services provider can be a daunting task. Some factors that should be considered when choosing a provider include their experience and expertise in your specific industry, their ability to communicate effectively, their technical skills and knowledge, their project management capabilities, and their reputation and references. What is the typical process for software development services? The typical process for software development services has seven important steps that our team follows to a tee, which include, planning, defining, designing, building/ development, testing, deployment, and maintenance. The specifics of the process may vary depending on the developer or company you choose and the project requirements. Choosing a software development services provider can be a daunting undertaking. Some factors to consider when choosing a provider include their experience and expertise in your specific industry, their ability to communicate effectively, their technical skills and knowledge, their project management capabilities, and their reputation and references. Anim pariatur cliche reprehenderit, enim eiusmod high life accusamus terry richardson ad squid. 3 wolf moon officia aute, non cupidatat skateboard dolor brunch. Food truck quinoa nesciunt laborum eiusmod. Brunch 3 wolf moon tempor, sunt aliqua put a bird on it squid single-origin coffee nulla assumenda shoreditch et. Nihil anim keffiyeh helvetica, craft beer labore wes anderson cred nesciunt sapiente ea proident. Ad vegan excepteur butcher vice lomo. Leggings occaecat craft beer farm-to-table, raw denim aesthetic synth nesciunt you probably haven't heard of them accusamus labore sustainable VHS. How long does it take to develop custom software? It all depends on the project requirements. Every project is unique and its size and complexity are the most important factors in its overall duration. Small projects may take a few weeks to complete, while larger projects can take several months or even years. How much do software development services cost? The cost of software development services varies depending on the provider, the complexity of the project, the size of the development team, and other factors. It is important to get a detailed quote from the provider before beginning any project. How do I ensure the quality of the software developed by the provider? To make sure the quality of the software developed by the software development company is optimal, it is important to establish clear quality standards and testing procedures from the onset. You should also evaluate their portfolio and the testing and quality processes they have in place. Anim pariatur cliche reprehenderit, enim eiusmod high life accusamus terry richardson ad squid. 3 wolf moon officia aute, non cupidatat skateboard dolor brunch. Food truck quinoa nesciunt laborum eiusmod. Brunch 3 wolf moon tempor, sunt aliqua put a bird on it squid single-origin coffee nulla assumenda shoreditch et. Nihil anim keffiyeh helvetica, craft beer labore wes anderson cred nesciunt sapiente ea proident. Ad vegan excepteur butcher vice lomo. Leggings occaecat craft beer farm-to-table, raw denim aesthetic synth nesciunt you probably haven't heard of them accusamus labore sustainable VHS. How much does software development services cost? Anim pariatur cliche reprehenderit, enim eiusmod high life accusamus terry richardson ad squid. 3 wolf moon officia aute, non cupidatat skateboard dolor brunch. Food truck quinoa nesciunt laborum eiusmod. Brunch 3 wolf moon tempor, sunt aliqua put a bird on it squid single-origin coffee nulla assumenda shoreditch et. Nihil anim keffiyeh helvetica, craft beer labore wes anderson cred nesciunt sapiente ea proident. Ad vegan excepteur butcher vice lomo. Leggings occaecat craft beer farm-to-table, raw denim aesthetic synth nesciunt you probably haven't heard of them accusamus labore sustainable VHS. Anim pariatur cliche reprehenderit, enim eiusmod high life accusamus terry richardson ad squid. 3 wolf moon officia aute, non cupidatat skateboard dolor brunch. Food truck quinoa nesciunt laborum eiusmod. Brunch 3 wolf moon tempor, sunt aliqua put a bird on it squid single-origin coffee nulla assumenda shoreditch et. Nihil anim keffiyeh helvetica, craft beer labore wes anderson cred nesciunt sapiente ea proident. Ad vegan excepteur butcher vice lomo. Leggings occaecat craft beer farm-to-table, raw denim aesthetic synth nesciunt you probably haven't heard of them accusamus labore sustainable VHS. The typical process for software development services includes several stages such as requirements gathering, design, development, testing, deployment, and maintenance. The specifics of the process may vary depending on the provider and the project requirements. The time it takes to develop custom software varies depending on the complexity of the project, the size of the development team, and other factors. Small projects may take a few weeks to complete, while larger projects can take several months or even years. To ensure the quality of the software developed by the provider, it is important to establish clear quality standards and testing procedures from the outset. You should also ensure that the provider has a thorough testing and quality assurance process in place. It all depends on the project requirements. Every project is unique and its size and complexity are the most important factors in its overall duration. What happens after the software is deployed? After the software is deployed, it is important to provide ongoing maintenance and support to ensure that it continues to function properly. The provider should have a process in place for providing ongoing support and addressing any issues that may arise. The typical process for software development services has seven important steps that our team follows to a tee, which include, planning, defining, designing, building/ development, testing, deployment, and maintenance. The specifics of the process may vary depending on the developer or company you choose and the project requirements. How do I come up with a startup idea Finding a problem or a market gap that needs to be filled can drive the creation of a company idea. To come up with ideas, think about your own experiences, interests, and areas of competence. To validate and improve your ideas, conduct market research, speak with possible customers, and explore developing trends. How do I validate my startup idea? Conducting market research, getting feedback from potential clients, and testing your hypotheses are all part of validating your startup idea. To evaluate interest, identify pain points, and make sure there is a market for your good or service, you can utilize surveys, interviews, focus groups, and prototypes. How can I fund my startup? There are several options to fund your startup, including self-funding, friends and family, angel investors, venture capital, crowdfunding, grants and subsidies. How do I build a strong team for my startup? Building a strong team involves identifying the necessary skills and know-how required for your startup, conducting exhaustive interviews and assessments, and evaluating cultural fit. Seek people who are enthusiastic about your idea, contribute a variety of viewpoints, and balance your strengths and limitations. How can I differentiate my startup from competitors? To differentiate your startup, focus on features such as unique value proposition, innovation, customer experience, branding, and pricing strategy. Anim pariatur cliche reprehenderit, enim eiusmod high life accusamus terry richardson ad squid. 3 wolf moon officia aute, non cupidatat skateboard dolor brunch. Food truck quinoa nesciunt laborum eiusmod. Brunch 3 wolf moon tempor, sunt aliqua put a bird on it squid single-origin coffee nulla assumenda shoreditch et. Nihil anim keffiyeh helvetica, craft beer labore wes anderson cred nesciunt sapiente ea proident. Ad vegan excepteur butcher vice lomo. Leggings occaecat craft beer farm-to-table, raw denim aesthetic synth nesciunt you probably haven't heard of them accusamus labore sustainable VHS. Anim pariatur cliche reprehenderit, enim eiusmod high life accusamus terry richardson ad squid. 3 wolf moon officia aute, non cupidatat skateboard dolor brunch. Food truck quinoa nesciunt laborum eiusmod. Brunch 3 wolf moon tempor, sunt aliqua put a bird on it squid single-origin coffee nulla assumenda shoreditch et. Nihil anim keffiyeh helvetica, craft beer labore wes anderson cred nesciunt sapiente ea proident. Ad vegan excepteur butcher vice lomo. Leggings occaecat craft beer farm-to-table, raw denim aesthetic synth nesciunt you probably haven't heard of them accusamus labore sustainable VHS. Anim pariatur cliche reprehenderit, enim eiusmod high life accusamus terry richardson ad squid. 3 wolf moon officia aute, non cupidatat skateboard dolor brunch. Food truck quinoa nesciunt laborum eiusmod. Brunch 3 wolf moon tempor, sunt aliqua put a bird on it squid single-origin coffee nulla assumenda shoreditch et. Nihil anim keffiyeh helvetica, craft beer labore wes anderson cred nesciunt sapiente ea proident. Ad vegan excepteur butcher vice lomo. Leggings occaecat craft beer farm-to-table, raw denim aesthetic synth nesciunt you probably haven't heard of them accusamus labore sustainable VHS. Finding a problem or a market gap that needs to be filled can drive the creation of a company idea. To come up with ideas, think about your own experiences, interests, and areas of competence. To validate and improve your ideas, conduct market research, speak with possible customers, and explore developing trends. Do you offer a web app audit service? Yes, we offer a comprehensive web app audit service. With this, we thoroughly evaluate your app’s performance and functionality. We assess factors such as user experience, app speed, mobile responsiveness, security, and SEO. Our detailed audit provides actionable insights and recommendations to enhance your app[s effectiveness, optimize performance, and ensure it meets your business goals. What is the importance of having a professionally designed web application? A well-designed web application helps build a solid online presence, boosts credibility, draws more visitors, and increases user experience, ultimately resulting in higher conversion rates and business expansion. How long does it take to develop a web app? The time required to create a web application depends on various factors such as its complexity, features, and functionality requirements. An elementary website can take a few weeks, while more complex projects may take quite a few months. Our team will provide you with a timeline based on your specific project needs. Do you offer e-commerce app development services? Yes, at Arpatech, you'll find experts in building e-commerce applications. We design user-friendly online stores that include tools for managing product catalogs, shopping carts, payment gateways, and other features. IT staff augmentation is a business strategy where a company temporarily hires external IT specialists or teams to supplement their in-house expertise. These professionals work along with the company's in-house IT staff to address specific project needs or skills gaps. What types of IT roles can be filled through staff augmentation? Anim pariatur cliche reprehenderit, enim eiusmod high life accusamus terry richardson ad squid. 3 wolf moon officia aute, non cupidatat skateboard dolor brunch. Food truck quinoa nesciunt laborum eiusmod. Brunch 3 wolf moon tempor, sunt aliqua put a bird on it squid single-origin coffee nulla assumenda shoreditch et. Nihil anim keffiyeh helvetica, craft beer labore wes anderson cred nesciunt sapiente ea proident. Ad vegan excepteur butcher vice lomo. Leggings occaecat craft beer farm-to-table, raw denim aesthetic synth nesciunt you probably haven't heard of them accusamus labore sustainable VHS. Is IT staff augmentation suitable for short-term projects only? Anim pariatur cliche reprehenderit, enim eiusmod high life accusamus terry richardson ad squid. 3 wolf moon officia aute, non cupidatat skateboard dolor brunch. Food truck quinoa nesciunt laborum eiusmod. Brunch 3 wolf moon tempor, sunt aliqua put a bird on it squid single-origin coffee nulla assumenda shoreditch et. Nihil anim keffiyeh helvetica, craft beer labore wes anderson cred nesciunt sapiente ea proident. Ad vegan excepteur butcher vice lomo. Leggings occaecat craft beer farm-to-table, raw denim aesthetic synth nesciunt you probably haven't heard of them accusamus labore sustainable VHS. What are the potential challenges of IT staff augmentation? Anim pariatur cliche reprehenderit, enim eiusmod high life accusamus terry richardson ad squid. 3 wolf moon officia aute, non cupidatat skateboard dolor brunch. Food truck quinoa nesciunt laborum eiusmod. Brunch 3 wolf moon tempor, sunt aliqua put a bird on it squid single-origin coffee nulla assumenda shoreditch et. Nihil anim keffiyeh helvetica, craft beer labore wes anderson cred nesciunt sapiente ea proident. Ad vegan excepteur butcher vice lomo. Leggings occaecat craft beer farm-to-table, raw denim aesthetic synth nesciunt you probably haven't heard of them accusamus labore sustainable VHS. Can you integrate third-party tools and platforms into the web app? To improve the functionality of your app, we offer API integration as well as numerous third-party tools and platform integrations. This comprises tools for marketing automation, CRM systems, and payment gateways, among other things. Will my web app be mobile-friendly and responsive? Yes, we prioritize mobile responsiveness in our application development process. Your app will be optimized to adapt seamlessly to different screen sizes and devices, including smartphones, tablets, and desktops. What is the importance of having a professionally designed website? A well-designed website helps build a solid online presence, boosts credibility, draws more visitors, and increases user experience, ultimately resulting in higher conversion rates and business expansion. How long does it take to develop a website? The time required to create a website depends on various factors such as its complexity, features, and design requirements. An elementary website can take a few weeks, while more complex projects may take quite a few months. Our team will provide you with a timeline based on your specific project needs. Do you offer e-commerce website development services? Yes, we are experts in building e-commerce websites. We can design a safe, user-friendly online store that includes tools for managing product catalogs, shopping carts, payment gateways, and other features. Can you integrate third-party tools and platforms into the website? Absolutely! To improve the functionality of your website, we have expertise integrating numerous third-party tools, platforms, and APIs. This comprises tools for marketing automation, CRM systems, and payment gateways, among other things. Will my website be mobile-friendly and responsive? Yes, we prioritize mobile responsiveness in our website design and development process. Your website will be optimized to adapt seamlessly to different screen sizes and devices, providing an optimal browsing experience for your users. Can I update and manage the content of my website on my own? Yes, we can integrate a content management system (CMS) into your website so you can simply maintain and update its content without having any specialized technical knowledge. To help you manage content updates effectively, we'll offer training and support. Can I update and manage the content of my web app on my own? Yes, we integrate a content management system (CMS) into your web app, allowing you to maintain and update its content without having any specialized technical knowledge. To help you manage content updates effectively, we also offer training and support. Do you offer a website development audit service? Yes, we offer a comprehensive website development audit service. With this, we thoroughly evaluate your site’s performance, design, and functionality. We assess factors such as user experience, site speed, mobile responsiveness, security, and SEO. Our detailed audit provides actionable insights and recommendations to enhance your website’s effectiveness, optimize performance, and ensure it meets your business goals. What is the importance of having a professionally designed website? A well-designed website helps build a solid online presence, boosts credibility, draws more visitors, and increases user experience, ultimately resulting in higher conversion rates and business expansion. How long does it take to develop a website? The time required to create a website depends on various factors such as its complexity, features, and design requirements. An elementary website can take a few weeks, while more complex projects may take quite a few months. Our team will provide you with a timeline based on your specific project needs. Do you offer e-commerce website development services? Yes, at Arpatech, you'll find experts in building e-commerce websites. We can design a safe, user-friendly online store that includes tools for managing product catalogs, shopping carts, payment gateways, and other features. Can you integrate third-party tools and platforms into the website? To improve the functionality of your website, we offer API integration as well as numerous third-party tools and platform integrations. This comprises tools for marketing automation, CRM systems, and payment gateways, among other things. Will my website be mobile-friendly and responsive? Yes, we prioritize mobile responsiveness in our website design and development process. Your website will be optimized to adapt seamlessly to different screen sizes and devices, providing an optimal browsing experience for your users. Can I update and manage the content of my website on my own? Yes, we can integrate a content management system (CMS) into your website so you can simply maintain and update its content without having any specialized technical knowledge. To help you manage content updates effectively, we’ll offer training and support. A well-designed website helps build a solid online presence, boosts credibility, draws more visitors, and increases user experience, ultimately resulting in higher conversion rates and business expansion. Do you offer a web development audit service? Yes, we offer a comprehensive web development audit service. With this, we thoroughly evaluate your site’s performance, design, and functionality. We assess factors such as user experience, site speed, mobile responsiveness, security, and SEO. Our detailed audit provides actionable insights and recommendations to enhance your website’s effectiveness, optimize performance, and ensure it meets your business goals. Do you offer e-commerce web development services? Yes, we offer a comprehensive web development audit service. With this, we thoroughly evaluate your site’s performance, design, and functionality. We assess factors such as user experience, site speed, mobile responsiveness, security, and SEO. Our detailed audit provides actionable insights and recommendations to enhance your web app’s effectiveness, optimize performance, and ensure it meets your business goals. What is the importance of having a professionally designed web app? A well-designed web app helps build a solid online presence, boosts credibility, draws more visitors, and increases user experience, ultimately resulting in higher conversion rates and business expansion. The time required to create a web app depends on various factors such as its complexity, features, and design requirements. An elementary web app can take a few weeks, while more complex projects may take quite a few months. Our team will provide you with a timeline based on your specific project needs. Yes, at Arpatech, you'll find experts in building e-commerce web app. We can design a safe, user-friendly online store that includes tools for managing product catalogs, shopping carts, payment gateways, and other features. To improve the functionality of your web app, we offer API integration as well as numerous third-party tools and platform integrations. This comprises tools for marketing automation, CRM systems, and payment gateways, among other things. Yes, we prioritize mobile responsiveness in our web design and development process. Your web app will be optimized to adapt seamlessly to different screen sizes and devices, providing an optimal browsing experience for your users. Yes, we can integrate a content management system (CMS) into your web app so you can simply maintain and update its content without having any specialized technical knowledge. To help you manage content updates effectively, we’ll offer training and support. Yes, we offer a comprehensive web development audit service. With this, we thoroughly evaluate your site’s performance, design, and functionality. We assess factors such as user experience, site speed, mobile responsiveness, security, and SEO. Our detailed audit provides actionable insights and recommendations to enhance your web app’s efficiency, optimize performance, and ensure it meets your business goals. Yes, we integrate a content management system (CMS) into your web app, allowing you to maintain and update its content without having any specialized technical knowledge. To help you manage content updates effectively, we also offer training and support. What are the benefits of implementing DevSecOps? Implementing DevSecOps enhances security by integrating it throughout development, reducing vulnerabilities early. It also speeds up delivery and ensures compliance while promoting better collaboration across teams. Why is DevSecOps important to businesses? The number one benefit of DevSecOps is the code quality and secure code you get. Today, businesses prioritize security above all other operations because facing a security breach is their worst nightmare. Therefore, investing in DevSecOps is the right direction for all businesses. What are some Best Practices for implementing DevSecOps? Some of the best practices of DevSecOps development include integrating security early in the development lifecycle, automating security testing, and ensuring continuous monitoring and feedback. What is the future of DevSecOps? When we think about the future of DevSecOps, the one thing that comes to mind is: more security. Working with a cross-functional team, you're sure to get a secure and robust environment for your application development requirements. What services does the IT help desk provide? We offer a range of IT support services, including troubleshooting software and hardware issues, network connectivity problems, password resets, and assistance with email, VPN, and other enterprise applications listed on the page. If you don't find the service you require, don’t hesitate to contact us. How do I contact IT support? You can reach us via phone or email or submit a ticket through our online help desk portal. our team is always ready to help you. What kind of issues can the help desk resolve remotely? We can remotely assist with software installations, password resets, troubleshooting applications, and resolving internet or network issues. Is there a cost for IT support services? Support services are included as part of your company’s IT plan. However, certain services, such as hardware replacement, may incur additional fees.

flexible: Flexible Subscription Plans with Al-Powered Charging Optimization

flip: BI helps improve business processes, detect snags, and streamline operations, leading to better efficiency and output. BI helps improve business processes, detect snags, and streamline operations, leading to better efficiency and output. BI provides businesses with actionable insights and analysis based on data, allowing for informed decision making. Businesses can track key performance indicators (KPIs) in real-time using BI tools, which enables rapid detection of problems and possibilities for growth. BI allows businesses to examine customer data, preferences, and feedback, leading to tailored experiences, improved customer service, and greater satisfaction levels. The interactive and aesthetically pleasing dashboards and reports that BI solutions offer make it simpler for stakeholders to understand and successfully share data insights.

footer: Stay connected with us to receive the latest information, updates, and insights from our world of innovation. By entering your email address you will receive promotional updates. ARPATECH (ADVANCED RESEARCH PROJECTS & TECHNOLOGY) © 2023 ARPATECH (ADVANCED RESEARCH PROJECTS & TECHNOLOGY) +1 (800) 214-3513 | +92 21 35250741-6 | +92 21 35250741-6 | sales@arpatech.com +92 21 35250741-6 | sales@arpatech.com

global: 1302-23 13th Floor, City Tower 2, Main Sheikh Zayed Road, Dubai, UAE KHI: Plot# 195, Block A, SMCHS, 74400, Karachi. +9221352507416 ISB: 6th Floor, Amazon Outlet Mall, GT Road, Islamabad. +1 (503) 5064-244 5-A, 13th Floor, City Tower 2, Main Sheikh Zayed Road, Dubai, UAE KHI: Plot# 195, Block A, SMCHS. ISB: 6th Floor, Amazon Outlet Mall, Near DHA II, Gate # 1, GT Road. Upper Willsley House, Angley Road, Cranbrook, Kent, TN17 2LF. KHI: Plot# 195, Block A, SMCHS. ISB: 6th Floor, Amazon Outlet Mall, Near DHA II, Gate # 1, GT Road. KHI: Plot# 195, Block A, SMCHS, Sindh. KHI: Plot# 195, Block A, SMCHS, Sindh. ISB: 6th Floor, Amazon Outlet Mall, Near DHA II, Gate # 1, GT Road. KHI: Plot# 195, Block A, SMCHS, Karachi. ISB: 6th Floor, Amazon Outlet Mall, Near DHA II, Gate # 1, GT Road, Islamabad. ISB: 6th Floor, Amazon Outlet Mall, GT Road, Islamabad. +1 (800) 214-3513 ISB: 6th Floor, Amazon Outlet Mall, GT Road, Islamabad. +1 (800) 214-3513 ISB: 6th Floor, Amazon Outlet Mall, GT Road, Islamabad. +1 (800) 214-3513 KHI: Plot# 195, Block A, SMCHS, 74400, Karachi. +9221352507416 KHI: Plot# 195, Block A, SMCHS, 74400, Karachi. +9221352507416

google: Google Cloud Services - GCP

home: Explore the power of global tech collaboration as we connect business with technology. In an interconnected world where innovation and ingenuity are the keystones of progress, our collaborative approach propels businesses forward. Stay connected with us to receive the latest information, updates, and insights from our world of innovation. By entering your email address you will receive promotional updates. +1 (800) 214-3513 | +92 21 35250741 6 +92 21 35250741 6 Discover how our creative ideas have revolutionized businesses, fueled growth, and produced amazing results. Witness the strength of our knowledge and the real effect we make for our clients through industry-leading initiatives and groundbreaking collaborations with key technology players. Expand your tech horizons through our latest news and engaging blog posts. Dive into captivating and informative content that explores emerging trends, groundbreaking technologies, and industry insights. Our wide-ranging collection of articles will help you stay informed, motivated, and engaged. Discover how our creative ideas have revolutionized businesses, fueled growth, and produced amazing results. Witness the strength of our knowledge and the real effect we make for our clients through industry-leading initiatives and groundbreaking collaborations with key technology players. Expand your tech horizons through our latest news and engaging blog posts. Dive into captivating and informative content that explores emerging trends, groundbreaking technologies, and industry insights. Our wide-ranging collection of articles will help you stay informed, motivated, and engaged. Expand your tech horizons through our latest news and engaging blog posts. Dive into captivating and informative content that explores emerging trends, groundbreaking technologies, and industry insights. Our wide-ranging collection of articles will help you stay informed, motivated, and engaged. Discover how our creative ideas have revolutionized businesses, fueled growth, and produced amazing results. Witness the strength of our knowledge and the real effect we make for our clients through industry-leading initiatives and groundbreaking collaborations with key technology players. Switch to a Microsoft Modern Workplace to Increase Business's Productivity and Connectivity. Join the conversation and stay informed! Follow us on social media to get the latest updates, behind-the-scenes insights, and exclusive content. Join the conversation and stay informed! Follow us on social media to get the latest updates, behind-the-scenes insights, and exclusive content. As they say, it takes two to tango! Just tell us your specific needs and we will come up with an innovative solution that will not only meet your objectives but will also help you set apart from your competitors. Explore the power of global tech collaboration as we connect business with technology. In an interconnected world where innovation and ingenuity are the keystones of progress, our collaborative approach propels businesses forward. Discover how our innovative solutions are transforming the digital landscape, driving businesses towards unmatched success. With our effective approach and pioneering technologies, we empower you to explore the fast-changing digital world with confidence and stay ahead of the curve. Discover how our innovative solutions are transforming the digital landscape, driving businesses towards unmatched success. With our groundbreaking approach and pioneering technologies, we empower you to explore the fast-changing digital world with confidence and stay ahead of the curve.

issues: Unable to track live location of the riders for better monitoring and optimization of last mile delivery to customers, verifiable returns, and security issues. Delays due to poor routes, unreliable carriers, leading to longer delivery lead times and unhappy customers. Handling large amounts of daily cash carries risk of theft, mishandling and delays in paying cash on delivery amount to customers. Verifying against fake deliveries or wrongful attempts to delivery versus actual unavailability of customers to receive their orders was important to maintain quality of delivery service.

it: We Handle All Kinds of Incident Management By proactively identifying and resolving potential issues before they impact your business, we minimize downtime. Additionally, we assist remote employees through phone, email, or remote desktop software, offering guidance on the use of collaboration tools and cloud-based applications. IT Help Desk Consulting For Success We offer comprehensive advisory services, starting with a thorough feasibility study. Our team guides you through selecting the right sourcing model, structuring your help desk team, and providing a detailed cost analysis. Additionally, we recommend the most suitable help desk toolkit for your organization. By proactively identifying and resolving potential issues before they impact your business, we minimize downtime. Additionally, we assist remote employees through phone, email, or remote desktop software, offering guidance on the use of collaboration tools and cloud-based applications. We deliver fast, cost-effective incident resolution and proactive problem management by conducting root cause analysis and maintaining continuous monitoring of your IT infrastructure. This approach helps prevent issues before they arise, ensuring operational stability. By proactively identifying and resolving potential issues before they impact your business, we minimize downtime. Additionally, we assist remote employees through phone, email, or remote desktop software, offering guidance on the use of collaboration tools and cloud-based applications. We offer comprehensive advisory services, starting with a thorough feasibility study. Our team guides you through selecting the right sourcing model, structuring your help desk team, and providing a detailed cost analysis. Additionally, we recommend the most suitable help desk toolkit for your organization. We offer comprehensive advisory services, starting with a thorough feasibility study. Our team guides you through selecting the right sourcing model, structuring your help desk team, and providing a detailed cost analysis. Additionally, we recommend the most suitable help desk toolkit for your organization. We offer comprehensive advisory services, starting with a thorough feasibility study. Our team guides you through selecting the right sourcing model, structuring your help desk team, and providing a detailed cost analysis. Additionally, we recommend the most suitable help desk toolkit for your organization.

key: Internal users can create standardized engagement templates with various business components. Templates establish a consistent framework for collecting customer data. The system can make the best recommendations for enterprise suite solutions by incorporating specific rules.

latest: Latest Blog - Web Development Latest Blog - Digital Marketing Latest Blog - Mobile App Latest Blog - Virtual Reality Latest Blog - Women Entrepreneurs Latest Blog - PHP Latest Blog - ORM Latest Blog - Android App Latest Blog - 5G & 3D Latest Blog - Augmented Reality Latest Blog - Digital Marketing Latest Blog - Web Design Latest Blog - Web Development Latest Blog - 5G Technology Latest Blog - Mobile App Latest Blog - React JS Latest Blog - Customer Retention Latest Blog - Social Media Latest Blog - PHP & HTACCESS Latest Blog - Blockchain Latest Blog - Cloud Hosting Latest Blog - OpenAI Latest Blog - Magento 2 Latest Blog - Mobile App Development Latest Blog - Web Application Latest Blog - 3D Modelling Latest Blog - Net Core Latest Blog - Hongmeng OS Latest Blog - Machine Learning Latest Blog - Augmentation Latest Blog - Data Security Latest Blog - Web Design Latest Blog - Content Writing Latest Blog - WordPress Latest Blog - Web Hosting Latest Blog - Cloud Apps Latest Blog - Data Science Latest Blog - Power Apps Latest Blog - Software Development Latest Blog - Business Intelligence Latest Blog - Mobile Marketing Latest Blog - Mobile Apps Latest Blog - Startup Latest Blog - WooCommerce Latest Blog - SEO Latest Blog - App Development Latest Blog - Search Engine Latest Blog - SME Latest Blog - Azure IoT Latest Blog - Azure Latest Blog - Google Business Profile Latest Blog - Microsoft ASP.net Latest Blog - Product Development Latest Blog - Cloud Computing Latest Blog - Virtual Reality Latest Blog - Resource Augmentation Latest Blog - Content Marketing Latest Blog - Mobile App Development Latest Blog - PHP Development Latest Blog - Staff Augmentation Latest Blog - Google Updates Latest Blog - Business Intelligence Latest Blog - Artificial Intelligence Artificial Intelligence's Future: How It Will Transform the World

left: Automated security tools are integrated within the CI/CD pipeline to continuously scan for vulnerabilities. This includes dependency scans, static analysis, interactive application security testing, dynamic testing, infrastructure as Code (Iac) Security, and Infrastructure scanning (container/Kubernetes), so that security checks are done as early and often as possible. The security practice is involved at the very beginning of the development lifecycle, ensuring security vulnerabilities are identified and fixed prior to deployment. Developers are trained in secure coding, with security testing at every stage. Continuous monitoring tools are deployed to observe the environment for threats, anomalies, and compliance violations. This includes automated alerting systems and tools that enable quick responses to incidents. DevSecOps promotes teamwork between security, development, and operations teams. Shared security responsibility among all employees fosters a culture of transparency and security awareness across the organization. Security policies and compliance requirements are embedded into development. The workflow includes audits, compliance checks, and security controls to ensure that applications adhere to industry regulations and standards. Automated security tools are integrated within the CI/CD pipeline to continuously scan for vulnerabilities. This includes dependency scans, static analysis, interactive application security testing, dynamic testing, infrastructure as Code (Iac) Security, and Infrastructure scanning (container/Kubernetes), so that security checks are done as early and often as possible.

life: At Arpatech, we strive to create an environment, where our employees can fully indulge their creativity. We believe in an inclusive and supportive environment that enables our employees to showcase their best roles at work. All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy! And we firmly believe in this maxim. Driven by this thumb rule to ignite a creative spark in our employees, we have created an environment at Arpatech that allows them to strike a perfect work-life balance. We focus on creating a positive work environment that allows our employees to develop themselves with professional growth opportunities, have a supportive work culture, and reap many benefits as part of the organization. our goal with an employee-centric culture is to make your time at Arpatech worthwhile. We understand that a fulfilling professional life goes beyond your workspace. That's why we offer a range of perks designed to enhance your well-being and make your time at Arpatech truly worthwhile. Our recreational hub offers a range of in-house games like carrom, table tennis, foosball, and more. Take a break and challenge your colleagues to a friendly match or relax at our coffee corner. We also host inter-company tournaments to foster teamwork and camaraderie. Whether you're a seasoned athlete or a casual enthusiast, our recreational hub has something for everyone. Come, unwind, and show off your skills! Are you ready to bring your A-game? Whether you are an ace cricketer or a badminton superstar, our tournaments are the perfect stage to show off your skills and represent Arpatech. And we are not alone! We play with other top companies to build a friendly rivalry and strong connections! Arpatech is one big, happy family! And we make it happen by motivating employees to participate in fun-filled activities that allow them to unwind and relax. We also conduct training sessions across many domains for those willing to up their game. A small act of kindness goes a long way. To develop a strong community, Arpatech plays its role in improving people’s lives, especially those at the bottom of the population pyramid. Are you ready to bring your A-game? Whether you are an ace cricketer or a badminton superstar, our tournaments are the perfect stage to show off your skills and represent Arpatech. And we are not alone! We play with other top companies to build a friendly rivalry and strong connections! Arpatech, Are you ready to bring your A-game? Whether you are an ace cricketer or a badminton superstar, our tournaments are the perfect stage to show off your skills and represent Arpatech,. And we are not alone! We play with other top companies to build a friendly rivalry and strong connections! At Arpatech, we believe in balancing work and play. Our recreational hub offers a range of in-house games like carrom, table tennis, foosball, and more. Take a break and challenge your colleagues to a friendly match or relax at our coffee corner. We also host inter-company tournaments to foster teamwork and camaraderie. Whether you're a seasoned athlete or a casual enthusiast, our recreational hub has something for everyone. Come, unwind, and show off your skills! We understand that a fulfilling professional life goes beyond your workspace. That's why we offer an employee-cerntric culture to enhance your well-being and make your time at Arpatech truly worthwhile. We understand that a fulfilling professional life goes beyond your workspace. That's why we offer an employee-centric culture to enhance your well-being and make your time at Arpatech truly worthwhile.

manage: Service Management in Cloud Computing | Cloud Infrastructure Management | Cloud 24/7 Network Managing and Monitoring | Cloud Based Network Monitoring | Managed Cloud Computing Services Multi-Cloud Services Cloud Hosting | Best Cloud Web Hosting Services Managed Cloud Hosting Services | Best Cloud Hosting Multi-Cloud Services | Amazon Cloud Hosting Services Cloud Hosting Service Provider | Cloud Server Hosting AWS Cloud Hosting | Secure Cloud Hosting Services Level Up Your Business with Managed Cloud Services With the right people working on your business, you can uncover its full potential with the help of our managed cloud services. We will empower you to focus on core business activities while we handle the complex technical aspects. Choosing our cloud management services, you’ll reap the benefits of improved security, SLA goals, and reliability. Whether you need a scalable platform for your website or software applications, our services are tailored for businesses of all sizes. Embracing Innovation on Cloud Platforms With the power of cloud platforms, discover seamless scalability, improved collaboration, and rapid growth, all while transforming your digital presence. Everything You Need to Know about Managed Cloud Services. Take Your Business to New Heights with Managed Hosting Services Elevate your business and unleash its full potential with the incredible benefits of Managed Hosting Services. Our expert professionals will empower you to focus on core business activities while handling the complex technical aspects themselves. Enjoy the benefits of enhanced security always at its peak. Why Choose Us: Unequaled Brilliance in With the power of cloud platforms, discover seamless scalability, improved collaboration, and rapid growth, all while transforming your digital presence. Everything You Need to Know about Managed Cloud Hosting. Everything You Need to Know about Software Development. Elevate your business and unleash its full potential with the incredible benefits of Managed Hosting Services. Our expert professionals will empower you to focus on core business activities while handling the complex technical aspects themselves. Enjoy the benefits of enhanced security always at its peak. Our managed cloud hosting services are perfect for businesses of all sizes that need a reliable and scalable platform for their websites and software applications. Elevate your business and unleash its full potential with the incredible benefits of Managed Hosting Services. Our expert professionals will empower you to focus on core business activities while handling the complex technical aspects themselves. Enjoy the benefits of enhanced security always at its peak. Our managed cloud hosting services are perfect for businesses of all sizes that need a reliable and scalable platform for their websites and software applications. Take Your Business to New Heights with Managed CloudServices Service Management in Cloud Computing | Cloud 24/7 Network Managing and Monitoring | Cloud Computing | Service Management in Cloud Computing Cloud Infrastructure Management | Multi-Cloud Services Cloud 24/7 Network Managing and Monitoring Cloud Computing | Service Management in Cloud Computing | Cloud Infrastructure Management | Multi-Cloud Services | Cloud 24/7 Network Managing and Monitoring | Cloud Based Network Monitoring | Managed Cloud Computing Services Service Management in Cloud Computing | Cloud Infrastructure Management | Multi-Cloud Services | Cloud 24/7 Network Managing and Monitoring | Cloud Based Network Monitoring | Managed Cloud Computing Services Service Management in Cloud Computing | Cloud Infrastructure Management | Cloud 24/7 Network Managing and Monitoring | Cloud Based Network Monitoring | Managed Cloud Computing Services | Multi-Cloud Services With the right people working on your business, you can uncover its full potential with the help of Managed Cloud Services. We will empower you to focus on core business activities while we easily handle the complex technical aspects. So, employ cloud computing management services and enjoy the benefits of enhanced security. If you need a reliable and scalable platform for their websites and software applications, our cloud computing managed services are perfect for business of all sizes. Embracing Innovation on Cloud Platforms With the power of cloud platforms, discover seamless scalability, improved collaboration, and rapid growth, all while transforming your digital presence. Embracing Innovation on Cloud Platforms: With the power of cloud platforms, discover seamless scalability, improved collaboration, and rapid growth, all while transforming your digital presence. With the right people working on your business, you can uncover its full potential with the help of Managed Cloud Services. We will empower you to focus on core business activities while we easily handle the complex technical aspects. So, employ cloud computing management services and enjoy the benefits of enhanced security. If you need a reliable and scalable platform for their websites and software applications, our cloud computing managed services are perfect for business of all sizes. Embracing Innovation on Cloud Platforms: With the power of cloud platforms, discover seamless scalability, improved collaboration, and rapid growth, all while transforming your digital presence. Embracing Innovation on Cloud Platforms: With the power of cloud platforms, discover seamless scalability, improved collaboration, and rapid growth, all while transforming your digital presence. Embracing Innovation on Cloud Platforms: With the power of cloud platforms, discover seamless scalability, improved collaboration, and rapid growth, all while transforming your digital presence. With the right people working on your business, you can uncover its full potential with the help of Managed Cloud Services. We will empower you to focus on core business activities while we easily handle the complex technical aspects. So, employ cloud computing management services and enjoy the benefits of enhanced security. By choosing our cloud management services, you’ll enjoy enhanced security and reliability. Whether you need a scalable platform for your website or software applications, our services are tailored for businesses of all sizes With the right people working on your business, you can uncover its full potential with the help of Managed Cloud Services. We will empower you to focus on core business activities while we easily handle the complex technical aspects. So, employ cloud computing management services and enjoy the benefits of enhanced security. By choosing our cloud management services, you’ll reap the benefits of improved security and reliability. Whether you need a scalable platform for your website or software applications, our services are tailored for businesses of all sizes With the right people working on your business, you can uncover its full potential with the help of our Managed Cloud Services. We will empower you to focus on core business activities while we handle the complex technical aspects. Choosing our cloud management services, you’ll reap the benefits of improved security and reliability. Whether you need a scalable platform for your website or software applications, our services are tailored for businesses of all sizes With the right people working on your business, you can uncover its full potential with the help of our Managed Cloud Services. We will empower you to focus on core business activities while we handle the complex technical aspects. Choosing our cloud management services, you’ll reap the benefits of improved security, SLA goals and reliability. Whether you need a scalable platform for your website or software applications, our services are tailored for businesses of all sizes. Cloud 24/7 Network Managing and Monitoring | Managed Cloud Computing Services Multi-Cloud Services Service Management in Cloud Computing | Cloud Infrastructure Management Cloud 24/7 Network Managing and Monitoring | Cloud Based Network Monitoring Managed Cloud Computing Services Multi-Cloud Services

mobile: Mobile App Development | iPhone App Development App Development Agency | Mobile App Developers iOS App Development | Mobile App Company Android App Development | Android App Developers Hybrid App Developers | Cross Platform Development iPhone App Development | Mobile App Company We intend to provide streamlined processes, we develop mobile app for multiple platforms. Our expert developers know everything from mobile app development for iOS and Android to Windows and Cross-Platform. Bring your software design idea to us and our team will provide you with valuable feedback that will help you design and develop a well-rounded application for your avant-garde brand. Knowing the challenges that your business faces, we offer custom mobile development services that provide you with solutions uniquely designed for your brand. With a collective approach and strong teamwork, our skilled developers and strategists produce a mobile app that is feature-rich yet user-friendly. We build highly impactful iOS and Android apps using cutting-edge agile methodologies and you can amplify the app’s performance by leveraging our digital marketing solutions to connect with your desired audience! Years in Software Development Everything You Need to Know about Mobile App Development As a mobile app development company, we can build mobile apps for multiple platforms including iOS, Android, Windows, and Cross-Platform. Our developers provide valuable feedback that helps you design a well-rounded mobile application solution for your brand. Enabling Your Business to Achieve Stellar Well aware of the fact that your business, like any other, has distinct sets of challenges, we offer custom-made mobile development services that address the specific problems quite effectively. With a collective approach and strong teamwork, our skilled developers and strategists produce a mobile app that is feature-rich yet user-friendly. Leveraging our cutting-edge agile methodologies, we build high-impact iOS and Android apps that empower your business. Learn more about how our digital marketing services can help you promote your mobile app and reach your target audience. can help you promote your mobile app and reach your target audience. With a collective approach and strong teamwork, our skilled developers and strategists produce a mobile app that is feature-rich yet user-friendly. Leveraging our cutting-edge agile methodologies, we build high-impact iOS and Android apps that empower your business. Discover the power of our digital marketing solutions in amplifying your mobile app's presence and connecting with your desired audience. in amplifying your mobile app's presence and connecting with your desired audience. With a collective approach and strong teamwork, our skilled developers and strategists produce a mobile app that is feature-rich yet user-friendly. Leveraging our cutting-edge agile methodologies, we build high-impact iOS and Android apps that empower your business. Discover the power of our digital marketing solutions in amplifying your mobile app's presence and connecting with your desired audience With a collective approach and strong teamwork, our skilled developers and strategists produce a mobile app that is feature-rich yet user-friendly. Leveraging our cutting-edge agile methodologies, we build high-impact iOS and Android apps that empower your business. Discover the power of our With a collective approach and strong teamwork, our skilled developers and strategists produce a mobile app that is feature-rich yet user-friendly. Leveraging our cutting-edge agile methodologies, we build high-impact iOS and Android apps that empower your business. Discover the power of our digital marketing solutions in amplifying your mobile app's presence and connecting with your desired audience. Mobile App Development Solutions for Multiple Years of experience in Mobile App Development Years of experience in Mobile App Dev Years of experience in Software Development Years of experience in Software Development iOS, Android, React Native & Flutter Years of experience in Software Dev

news: Arpatech Had to Achieve Right Scaling, High Availability, Reliability and Resilience With a Cost Balanced Solution Forrun application runs on LEMP stack (Linux, Nginx, MySQL, and PHP). Initially, the Arpatech team set- up Forrun’s application on some on-premise servers in at their own data center. Founded in 2003, Arpatech is a premier technology service provider with the aim of delivering business solutions to customers worldwide. Today, the company has a presence on four continents with offices and customers in US, UK, UAE and Pakistan. Arpatech offers a broad range of services, including software buildup, website development, mobile development, ecommerce store development, call center and customer support, cybersecurity, and startups assistance. Arpatech is a leading information technology company that provides high-quality software and development services as well as smart business solutions to customers worldwide. We have presence across four continents with customers in the US, the UK, the UAE, and Pakistan. With a strong and competitive workforce, the company has attained a number of achievements in the realm of information technology. Our gamut of services includes software, website, mobile, and ecommerce development, cybersecurity, and customer support. We have also been supporting startups in their expansion and growth, which has made us an established and reputed name among local and foreign clients. CMMI is a proven, result-oriented performance model and the globally accepted standard for improving capability, optimizing business performance and aligning operations to business goals. Examined at Level 2 of the CMMI Institute’s Capability Maturity Model Integration, Arpatech’s engineering unit has demonstrated constant improvement in design, production, maintenance and testing phases, which is a testament to the company’s unwavering commitment to bringing its core engineering unit on a par with global standards. The engineering unit was granted the certification after meticulous assessment of its ability to follow the efficient and seamless procedures, carried out by qualified personnel. In addition, the achievement vindicates that Arpatech is deeply committed to pursuing unceasing development and delivering stellar, high-quality work that has a positive impact on the entire organization. “The feat that we have achieved in the form of CMMI Development V2.0 certification amply testifies to our rock-solid commitment to the company’s linchpin—the engineering unit—in a bid to ensure each department continues to work without any hiccups that, in turn, impact the overall output of the organization, “said Mr. Khurram Khan, Director of Engineering / CTO of Arpatech’s Core Engineering Unit. Brig. Tariq Rafique, SVP Operations, said that the certification from the prestigious institute comes across as yet another feather in Arpatech’s cap, an achievement that will add to its credibility as a reliable and customer-driven IT company. “It’s a proud moment for the entire company, particularly its crown jewel, the engineering unit, and calls for a celebration!” Arpatech is proud to be awarded ISO 9001:2015 certification for its quality management systems. The attainment of this certification will help us adopt a quality management system which, in turn, will improve the company’s overall performance and provide a sound basis for its sustainable development initiatives. The QMS certification will provide Arpatech a model for building effective systems, which will be based on several quality management principles, including a strong customer focus, leadership and commitment of the top management, robust process-based approach, and the process of continuous improvement. Our decision to work towards ISO 9001:2015 certification validates our commitment to providing high-quality and reliable IT products and services to our clients and our constant pursuit to invest in technology and human development. The ISO 9001:2015 certification is the assurance that we have strong, well-defined procedures, and robust business continuity processes. This will also help us perform at the highest levels of quality and efficiency, while enabling us to deliver innovative, high-quality and customer-focused solutions to our customers. Arpatech is proud to be awarded ISO 20000-1:2018 certification, an internationally recognized standard for Information Technology Service Management Systems (ITSMS). The implementation of this system will ensure effective delivery of IT services, continuous improvement of systems and processes, and relentless focus on client satisfaction. To become ISO 20000-1:2018 compliant, Arpatech underwent an extensive company-wide audit that included IT services and management systems, primary evaluation, quality of its services and products, and clearance of minor non-conformities. Attainment of this certification validates that Arpatech meets international standards for information technology services; it also ensures it has the controls and procedures in place to consistently deliver cost-effective, quality IT services to its customers. This certification is a step forward for the company to drive best-in-class operational efficiency and its commitment to service excellence. Arpatech is proud to be awarded ISO 27001:2013 certification, an internationally recognized standard for Information Security Management Systems (ISMS). By implementing Information Security Management Systems, Arpatech will ensure to preserve the confidentiality, integrity and availability of information by applying risk management processes and giving confidence to clients that risks are adequately and effectively managed. We have developed and enforced our information security management systems in order to improve the organizational processes and overall management structure, enhance performance, maintain a high-level of quality and robust customer service. Information security is considered in the design of processes, information systems and controls. Information security management systems implementation has been scaled in accordance with the needs of our organization and customers. Arpatech is proud to be awarded ISO 22301:2019 certification, an internationally recognized standard for a controlled business continuity management system. The certification will help Arpatech ensure it implements, maintains and improves the management systems. The implementation of these management systems will reduce the likelihood of the occurrence of business continuity issues and will better prepare Arpatech for, respond to, and recover from any business disruptions to prevent damages to customers’ and its own reputation. We have a proper and reliable disaster recovery and business continuity plan in place that will help us quickly and effectively respond to any business disruptions in future. The ISO 22301:2019 (BCMS) provides a basis for understanding, developing, implementing, and managing business continuity within the organization, and gives business managers confidence when dealing with stakeholders both within and outside their organizations. This international standard is designed to keep businesses operational during the most challenging and unexpected circumstances, such as natural disasters, IT failures, power breakdowns, supply chain disruptions, government interventions, or other threats. Arpatech has successfully achieved CMMI Development V2.0 (CMMI-DEV) appraisal without SAM - ML2 in its Core Engineering Unit. CMMI is a proven, result-oriented performance model and the globally accepted standard for improving capability, optimizing business performance and aligning operations to business goals. Examined at Level 2 of the CMMI Institute’s Capability Maturity Model Integration, Arpatech’s engineering unit has demonstrated constant improvement in design, production, maintenance and testing phases, which is a testament to the company’s unwavering commitment to bringing its core engineering unit on a par with global standards. The engineering unit was granted the certification after meticulous assessment of its ability to follow the efficient and seamless procedures, carried out by qualified personnel. In addition, the achievement vindicates that Arpatech is deeply committed to pursuing unceasing development and delivering stellar, high-quality work that has a positive impact on the entire organization. “The feat that we have achieved in the form of CMMI Development V2.0 certification amply testifies to our rock-solid commitment to the company’s linchpin—the engineering unit—in a bid to ensure each department continues to work without any hiccups that, in turn, impact the overall output of the organization, “said Mr. Khurram Khan, Director of Engineering / CTO of Arpatech’s Core Engineering Unit. Brig. Tariq Rafique, SVP Operations, said that the certification from the prestigious institute comes across as yet another feather in Arpatech’s cap, an achievement that will add to its credibility as a reliable and customer-driven IT company. “It’s a proud moment for the entire company, particularly its crown jewel, the engineering unit, and calls for a celebration!” Arpatech successfully achieves CMMI Development V2.0 certification

outsourcing: Hire BPO Service Provider | BPO Services Solutions BPO Service Provider Company | BPO Service Agency Find answers to all your queries about our BPO Services here, if you have any more questions, contact us today! Everything You Need to Know about Mobile App Development Everything You Need to Know about Business Process Outsourcing. BPO Services | Business Process Outsourcing Company Order Management with More Than 500+ Suppliers Across Catalog Management, Supply Chain Management, Service Delivery Management, and 24/7 Operations Order management with more than 500 suppliers across including catalog management, supply chain management, service delivery management, and 24/7 operations staff Everything You Need to Know about Business Process Outsourcing , including Catalog Management, Supply Chain Management, Service Delivery Management, and 24/7 Operations Staff Looking to outsource your cloud services, software development, mobile app development or digital marketing? Your Solutions Start Here! Looking to outsource your mobile app development, digital marketing, software development, DevOps, managed cloud hosting, or startup needs? We can help! Find answers to all your queries about our BPO Services here, if you have any more questions, contactus today! Looking to outsource your mobile app development, software development, or digital marketing? We can help! Looking to outsource your mobile app development, software development, or digital marketing? We can help! Looking to outsource your mobile app development, software development, or digital marketing? We can help! Looking to outsource your managed cloud services, software development, mobile app development or digital marketing? Your Solutions Start Here! Looking to outsource your cloud services, software development, mobile app development or digital marketing? Your Solutions Start Here! Looking to outsource your cloud services, software development, mobile app development or digital marketing? Your Solutions Start Here! Looking to outsource your cloud services, software development, mobile app development or digital marketing? Your Solutions Start Here! Looking to outsource your cloud services, software development, mobile app development or digital marketing? Your Solutions Start Here! BPO Services | Business Process Outsourcing Company

perks: GCR – A Facility for Comfort & Privacy Our dedicated Girl’s Common Room, or as we like to call it GCR, provides a comfortable and private space for our female employees to connect, relax, and recharge. We believe this initiative promotes gender equality and a sense of belonging, making it more comfortable for our employees to work. Day Care - Supporting Working Mothers At Arpatech, our daycare facility provides a safe space for our employee's children, staffed with experienced babysitter. It reduces the stress associated with finding quality childcare, allowing our working mothers to focus on their work, knowing their children are in good hands nearby. Annual Picnic - Creating Lifelong Memories Our annual picnic is a highly anticipated event where employees bond with their families and colleagues in a relaxed setting. With a range of activities, games, and delicious food, we believe in creating memories and an opportunity to be away from the stress of everyday work. Arpatech actively seek talented individuals to join our team through career fairs and outreach programs at premier business and technology institutes. This initiative allows us to attract the best talent and grow our team with dedicated professionals. Annual Leave - Time to Recharge & Rest Our annual leave policy allows employees to take a break, travel, or simply relax with loved ones. We believe in giving our employees the time and space they need to recharge and come back to work refreshed and motivated. Paternity Leaves - Promoting Family Values Our paternity leave policy reflects our dedication to promoting family well-being and happiness. This time off helps fathers to be more involved in the caregiving process and recognizes the role of fathers in childcare. Maternity Leaves - Supporting New Mothers Our maternity leave policy recognizes the importance of this significant life event. This leave is essential because it provides new mothers with the necessary time to recover from childbirth and bond with their newborns. Baby Birth Gift - Joyous Celebrations The arrival of a newborn is a joyous occasion, and we celebrate this milestone with thoughtful gifts for our new parents. This special token of appreciation aims to make this moment even more memorable. Wedding Gift - Celebrating New Beginnings We celebrate our employees' new beginnings with a thoughtful gift, congratulating them on their wedding day. This gesture symbolizes our appreciation for their dedication and wish them a lifetime of happiness. Team Lunches - Bonding Over Meals At Arpatech, we believe in the power of team bonding through enjoyable meals and a relaxed setting. That's why we offer team get-togethers to our employees, promoting friendship and coordination among them. We are invested in our employees' professional growth and development. Certification Reimbursement enables our team members to enhance their skills, stay ahead with industry standards, and advance their careers. Internship Opportunities - Start Your Profession With Us Our internship programs are open to the family members of our employees, acknowledging the role that family plays in both personal and professional lives. This initiative promotes a sense of community and mutual growth within our organization. From the moment you become a permanent member of the Arpatech family, you are entitled to our medical insurance program for both yourself, your spouse and children. Arpatech takes care of you and your family like no other! We not only offer medical insurance, but also the exciting OPD reimbursement program that helps us stand out from the crowd. We ensure your financial security even when you have parted ways with us. That’s why, we offer another amazing benefit of provident fund that you can avail once you leave the company. In this age of [REDACTED_SECRET] fuel prices, no other benefit sounds more appealing than the fuel allowance. The benefit amply demonstrates our commitment to our asset—our employees Want to take your time off to relax or have a trip lined up? Our annual leave policy lets you enjoy the cherished moments that you plan to spend with your near and dear ones. Giving birth is a difficult yet beautiful phase of a woman’s life. Arpatech is proud to offer a comprehensive maternity leave policy that recognizes the importance of this incredible journey for our expecting employees. We have crafted a paternal leave policy that reflects our dedication to promoting family well-being and happiness, setting us apart as a progressive, employee-driven organization. The Arpatech family celebrates the joyous arrival of a newborn by gifting exciting gifts to new parents, making them even more unforgettable. At Arpatech, we extend warm wishes to our newly married employees and offer a small gift to all permanent members as they begin this joyful new journey in life. At Arpatech, we believe in the power of team bonding through enjoyable meals and a relaxed setting. That's why we offer team lunches to our employees, fostering friendship and camaraderie among the team. At Arpatech, we want to see you grow and excel. We have set the stage for you to receive training and certification reimbursement. This policy is designed to provide you with the resources you need to enhance your skills and knowledge. Family comes first. That's why we've developed a robust policy focused on unleashing the full potential of both our employees and their family members through training and internship programs. National Day Celebration - Patriotic Spirit We celebrate Independence Day with great enthusiasm, honoring the spirit of freedom and patriotism. By coming together to commemorate this significant day, Arpatech reaffirms its commitment to the principles of liberty and solidarity. We observe Pinktober with awareness campaigns and events, supporting the fight against breast cancer. This initiative demonstrates our care for our employees' health and well-being. At Arpatech, we want to see you grow and excel. We have set the stage for you to receive training and certification reimbursement. This policy is designed to provide you with the resources you need to enhance your skills and knowledge. English language and UI UX certification images to be added. An exciting common room was dedicated for our female employees, ensuring their comfort and privacy. A large room was dedicated to the kids of the working mothers and the number of babysitters also saw a jump. Women's day +14 August + Eat and meet + mango party Eat and Meet - Informal Connections Our "Eat and Meet" events encourage informal connections among employees, fostering a sense of community and belonging. These gatherings promote collaboration and friendship, making Arpatech a great place to work. Women's Day Celebration - Empowering Women Our Women's Day celebration recognizes the achievements and contributions of our female employees. This event is a testament to our commitment to gender equality and women's empowerment. Mango Party - Summer Fun and Festivities Our annual Mango Party is a fun-filled event that brings our employees together to celebrate the summer season and the tropical fruit we all love. The day is filled with fun activities, including mango-themed games, and a festive setting. Our Quarterly Awards recognize and reward outstanding performance, innovation, and teamwork. These awards motivate our employees to strive for excellence and reinforce our commitment to recognizing their achievements. GCR - Female Comfort & Privacy Our dedicated female common room, provides a comfortable and private space for our female employees to relax and recharge. This initiative promotes gender equality and a sense of belonging, making Arpatech a great place to work. We care for our employees' families too! Our day care facility, staffed with experienced babysitters, provides a safe and nurturing environment for children, giving working mothers peace of mind and a better work-life balance. Our annual picnic is a highly anticipated event where employees bond with their families and colleagues in a relaxed setting. We believe in creating memories that last a lifetime, and this event is a testament to our commitment to work-life balance. We actively seek talented individuals to join our team through career fairs and outreach programs at premier business and technology institutes. This initiative allows us to attract the best talent and grow our team with dedicated professionals. Annual Leave - Time to Recharge Maternity Leaves - Supporting New Mothers Our comprehensive maternity leave policy recognizes the importance of this significant life event. We provide our expecting employees with the support and care they need during this journey, ensuring a smooth transition back to work. Paternal Leave - Promoting Family Values Baby Birth Gifts - Joyous Celebrations The arrival of a newborn is a joyous occasion! We celebrate this milestone with exciting gifts for our new parents, making this moment even more special by gifting exciting gifts. Wedding Gifts - Celebrating New Beginnings We celebrate our employees' new beginnings with a thoughtful gift, congratulating them on their wedding day. This gesture symbolizes our appreciation for their dedication and commitment to Arpatech. We invest in our employees' growth and development by providing certification reimbursement. This policy enables our team members to enhance their skills and knowledge, staying up-to-date with industry trends and best practices. Our internship programs extend to our employees' family members, recognizing the importance of family in our personal and professional lives. Independence Day Celebration - Patriotic Spirit We celebrate Independence Day with great enthusiasm, honoring the spirit of freedom and patriotism. This event is a reminder of our values and the importance of community. Our annual Mango Party is a fun-filled event that brings our employees together to celebrate the summer season. This joyful occasion is a testament to our commitment to creating a positive work environment. Quarterly Team Awards - Recognizing Excellence Our Quarterly Team Awards recognize and reward outstanding performance, innovation, and teamwork. These awards motivate our employees to strive for excellence and reinforce our commitment to recognizing their achievements. Paternal Leave - Promoting Family Values We have crafted a paternal leave policy that reflects our dedication to promoting family well-being and happiness, setting us apart as a progressive, employee-driven organization. Our comprehensive maternity leave policy recognizes the importance of this significant life event. We provide our expecting employees with the support and care they need during this journey, ensuring a smooth transition back to work. Paternity Leave - Promoting Family Values Maternity Leave - Supporting New Mothers At Arpatech, our daycare facility is highly beneficial to our employees, demonstrating our strong commitment to their well-being and support. By providing a reliable and safe space for their children, staffed with experienced babysitters, it reduces the stress and worry associated with finding quality childcare. This service allows our working mothers to focus on their work, knowing their children are in good hands nearby. Our annual picnic is a highly anticipated event where employees bond with their families and colleagues in a relaxed setting. It provides a wonderful opportunity for everyone to relax, have fun, and bond outside of the usual work environment. With a range of activities, games, and delicious food, we believe in creating memories that last a lifetime. We have crafted a paternity leave policy that reflects our dedication to promoting family well-being and happiness. This time off helps fathers to be more involved in the caregiving process and recognizes the role of fathers in childcare. In turn, this leads to increased job satisfaction, employee loyalty, and a positive work environment. Our comprehensive maternity leave policy recognizes the importance of this significant life event. This leave is essential because it provides new mothers with the necessary time to recover from childbirth and bond with their newborns. Offering maternity leave demonstrates our commitment to supporting our employees' personal lives, promoting a healthy work-life balance, and a smooth transition back to work. The arrival of a newborn is a joyous occasion, and we honor this milestone by providing thoughtful gifts for our new parents. These special tokens of appreciation aim to make this moment even more memorable and celebrate the new addition to their family. We are invested in our employees' professional growth and development. Certification Reimbursement enables our team members to enhance their skills, stay current with industry standards, and advance their careers. this way, not only do they boost their expertise and confidence, but also contribute to the success of our organization. Our internship programs are open to the family members of our employees, acknowledging the role that family plays in both personal and professional lives. This initiative reflects our commitment to supporting our employees and their loved ones, promoting a sense of community and mutual growth within our organization. We celebrate Independence Day with great enthusiasm, honoring the spirit of freedom and patriotism. This event is a reminder of our values and the importance of community. By coming together to commemorate this significant day, Arpatech reaffirms its commitment to the principles of liberty and solidarity. Our annual Mango Party is a fun-filled event that brings our employees together to celebrate the summer season and the tropical fruit we all love. The day is filled with fun activities, including mango-themed games, delicious mango treats, and a festive environment. This event allows our employees to relax and socialize, strengthening our organizational team spirit. Our annual picnic is a highly anticipated event where employees bond with their families and colleagues in a relaxed setting. With a range of activities, games, and delicious food, we believe in creating memories that last a lifetime. Our annual Mango Party is a fun-filled event that brings our employees together to celebrate the summer season and the tropical fruit we all love. The day is filled with fun activities, including mango-themed games, delicious mango treats, and a festive environment. Our annual Mango Party is a fun-filled event that brings our employees together to celebrate the summer season and the tropical fruit we all love. The day is filled with fun activities, including mango-themed games, and a festive environment. The arrival of a newborn is a joyous occasion, and we celebrate this milestone with thoughtful gifts for our new parents. This special token of appreciation aims to make this moment even more memorable. The arrival of a newborn is a joyous occasion, and we celebrate this milestone with thoughtful gifts for our new parents. This special token of appreciation aims to make this moment even more memorable.

platforms: We scope your project and then select the best-fitting Android developers to offer you custom Android app development services that align with your industry. Designed for touchscreen devices, Android is open-source software, which means that developers can customize the code to suit their needs. We scope your project and then, select the best-fitting Android developers to offer you custom Android app development services that align with your industry. Our iOS mobile app development services ensure that we keep up with the latest guidelines, and ISO-certified systems enable us to solve all development challenges. Developed by Apple for its iPhones, iOS is the second most widely used mobile operating system in the world, after Android. Our iOS mobile app development services ensure that we keep up with the latest guidelines and ISO-certified systems enable us to make sure all development challenges are solved, allowing seamless operations on all iOS devices. Our iOS mobile app development services ensure that we keep up with the latest guidelines and ISO-certified systems enable us to make sure all development challenges are solved. Our iOS mobile app development services ensure that we keep up with the latest guidelines and ISO-certified systems enable us to solver all development challenges. Our iOS a href="/https://www.linkedin.com/posts/arpatech_mobileappdevelopment-innovation-digitaltransformation-activity-7123956576691863553-q5RJ?utm_source=share&utm_medium=member_desktop ">mobile app development services ensure that we keep up with the latest guidelines, and ISO-certified systems enable us to solve all development challenges. As a React Native app development company, build applications with our developers that will be ranking on Google Play Store and iOS Apple Store. An open-source UI software framework, React Native is used to develop apps for Android, Android TV, iOS, macOS, tvOS, Web, Windows and UWP. Using Flutter widgets and Dart, Flutter app development companies worldwide create visually appealing UIs and apps for all devices. This allows developers to build high-performance, natively compiled apps for mobile, web, and desktop from a single codebase. Leveraging Flutter widgets and Dart, Flutter app development companies worldwide create visually appealing UIs and performant apps for all iOS and Android devices. Leveraging Flutter widgets and Dart, Flutter app development companies worldwide create visually appealing UIs and performant apps for all devices. Leveraging Flutter widgets and Dart, Flutter app development companies worldwide create visually appealing UIs and apps for all devices. Our Xamarin developers build native apps using a single, shared C# codebase, allowing the development of complex apps effortless. A mobile app development platform, Xamarin lets developers build native iOS, Android, and Windows apps using a single, shared C# codebase. As a Xamarin app development company, our developers build native apps using a single, shared C# codebase, allowing the development of complex apps effortless.

privacy: This application collects some personal data from its users. Among the types of personal data that this application collects, by itself or through third parties, are: email address, first name, last name, phone number, city, country, cookies and usage data. Other personal data collected may be described in other sections of this privacy policy or by dedicated explanation text contextually with the data collection. The personal data may be freely provided by the User, or collected automatically when using this Application. Any use of cookies - or of other tracking tools - by this application or by the owners of third party services used by this Application, unless stated otherwise, serves to identify Users and remember their preferences, for the sole purpose of providing the service required by the User. Failure to provide certain personal data may make it impossible for this application to provide its services. Users are responsible for any personal data of third parties obtained, published or shared through this application and confirm that they have the third party's consent to provide the data to the owner. Arpatech Owner contact email: privacy@arpatech.com Among the types of Personal Data that this Application collects, by itself or through third parties, there are: email address, first name, last name, phone number, city, country, Cookies and Usage Data. Other Personal Data collected may be described in other sections of this privacy policy or by dedicated explanation text contextually with the Data collection. The Personal Data may be freely provided by the User, or collected automatically when using this Application. Any use of Cookies - or of other tracking tools - by this Application or by the owners of third party services used by this Application, unless stated otherwise, serves to identify Users and remember their preferences, for the sole purpose of providing the service required by the User. Failure to provide certain Personal Data may make it impossible for this Application to provide its services. Users are responsible for any Personal Data of third parties obtained, published or shared through this Application and confirm that they have the third party's consent to provide the Data to the Owner. Mode and Place of Processing the The data controller processes the data of users in a proper manner and shall take appropriate security measures to prevent unauthorized access, disclosure, modification, or unauthorized destruction of the data. The data processing is carried out using computers and/or IT enabled tools, following organizational procedures and modes strictly related to the purposes indicated. In addition to the data controller, in some cases, the data may be accessible to certain types of persons in charge, involved with the operation of the site (administration, sales, marketing, legal, system administration) or external parties (such as third party technical service providers, mail carriers, hosting providers, IT companies, communications agencies) appointed, if necessary, as data processors by the owner. The updated list of these parties may be requested from the data controller at any time. The data is processed at the data controller's operating offices and in any other places where the parties involved with the processing are located. For further information, please contact the data controller. The Data is kept for the time necessary to provide the service requested by the user, or stated by the purposes outlined in this document, and the user can always request that the data controller suspend or remove the data. The data concerning the User is collected to allow the owner to provide its services, as well as for the following purposes: Contacting the user and analytics. The personal data used for each purpose is outlined in the specific sections of this document. Detailed Information on the Processing of Personal data is collected for the following purposes and using the following services: The services contained in this section enable the owner to monitor and analyze web traffic and can be used to keep track of user behavior. Google Analytics is a web analysis service provided by Google Inc. (“Google”). Google utilizes the data collected to track and examine the use of this application, to prepare reports on its activities and share them with other Google services. Google may use the data collected to contextualize and personalize the ads of its own advertising network Personal data collected: cookies and usage data. Place of processing: US – Privacy Policy – Opt Out. Mailing List or Newsletter (This Application) By registering on the mailing list or for the newsletter, the User’s email address will be added to the contact list of those who may receive email messages containing information of commercial or promotional nature concerning this application. Your email address might also be added to this list as a result of signing up to this application or after making a purchase Personal Data collected: city, email address, first name, last name and phone number. By filling in the contact form with their Data, the User authorizes this application to use these details to reply to requests for information, quotes or any other kind of request as indicated by the form’s header Personal data collected: city, country, email address, first name, last name and phone number. Additional Information About Data Collection and The User's Personal Data may be used for legal purposes by the Data Controller, in Court or in the stages leading to possible legal action arising from improper use of this Application or the related services. The User declares to be aware that the Data Controller may be required to reveal personal data upon request of public authorities. The User's Personal Data may be used for legal purposes by the Data Controller, in Court or in the stages leading to possible legal action arising from improper use of this Application or the related services. The User declares to be aware that the Data Controller may be required to reveal personal data upon request of public authorities. The user's personal data may be used for legal purposes by the data controller, in court or in the stages leading to possible legal action arising from improper use of this application or the related services. The user declares to be aware that the data controller may be required to reveal personal data upon request of public authorities. Additional Information About User's Personal Data In addition to the information contained in this privacy policy, this application may provide the user with additional and contextual information concerning particular services or the collection and processing of personal data upon request. For operation and maintenance purposes, this application and any third party services may collect files that record interaction with this application (System logs) or use for this purpose other personal data (such as IP Address). Information Not Contained in This Policy More details concerning the collection or processing of personal data may be requested from the data controller at any time. Please see the contact information at the beginning of this document. Users have the right, at any time, to know whether their personal data has been stored and can consult the data controller to learn about their contents and origin, to verify their accuracy or to ask for them to be supplemented, cancelled, updated or corrected, or for their transformation into anonymous format or to block any data held in violation of the law, as well as to oppose their treatment for any and all legitimate reasons. Requests should be sent to the data controller at the contact information set out above. This Application does not support “Do Not Track” requests. To determine whether any of the third party services it uses honor the “Do Not Track” requests, please read their privacy policies The data controller reserves the right to make changes to this privacy policy at any time by giving notice to its Users on this page. It is strongly recommended to check this page often, referring to the date of the last modification listed at the bottom. If a user objects to any of the changes to the Policy, the User must cease using this application and can request that the data controller remove the personal data. Unless stated otherwise, the then-current privacy policy applies to all personal data the data controller has about users. The data controller is responsible for this privacy policy, prepared starting from the modules provided by Iubenda and hosted on Iubenda's servers. Any information regarding a natural person, a legal person, an institution or an association, which is, or can be, identified, even indirectly, by reference to any other information, including a personal identification number. Information collected automatically from this Application (or third party services employed in this application), which can include: the IP addresses or domain names of the computers utilized by the users who use this application, the URI addresses (Uniform Resource Identifier), the time of the request, the method utilized to submit the request to the server, the size of the file received in response, the numerical code indicating the status of the server's answer (successful outcome, error, etc.), the country of origin, the features of the browser and the operating system utilized by the user, the various time details per visit (e.g., the time spent on each page within the application) and the details about the path followed within the application with special reference to the sequence of pages visited, and other parameters about the device operating system and/or the user's IT environment. Information collected automatically from this application (or third party services employed in this application), which can include: the IP The legal or natural person to whom the personal data refers. The natural person, legal person, public administration or any other body, association or organization authorized by the data controller to process the personal data in compliance with this privacy policy. The natural person, legal person, public administration or any other body, association or organization with the right, also jointly with another data controller, to make decisions regarding the purposes, and the methods of processing of personal data and the means used, including the security measures concerning the operation and use of this application. The data controller, unless otherwise specified, is the owner of this application. The hardware or software tool by which the personal data of the user is collected. Small piece of data stored in the user's device. Notice to European users: this privacy statement has been prepared in fulfillment of the obligations under Art. 10 of EC Directive n. 95/46/EC, and under the provisions of Directive 2002/58/EC, as revised by Directive 2009/136/EC, on the subject of Cookies. This privacy policy relates solely to this application. Arpatech Among the types of Personal Data that this Application collects, by itself or through third parties, there are: email address, first name, last name, phone number, city, country, Cookies and Usage Data. Other Personal Data collected may be described in other sections of this privacy policy or by dedicated explanation text contextually with the Data collection. The Personal Data may be freely provided by the User, or collected automatically when using this Application. Any use of Cookies - or of other tracking tools - by this Application or by the owners of third party services used by this Application, unless stated otherwise, serves to identify Users and remember their preferences, for the sole purpose of providing the service required by the User. Failure to provide certain Personal Data may make it impossible for this Application to provide its services. Users are responsible for any Personal Data of third parties obtained, published or shared through this Application and confirm that they have the third party's consent to provide the Data to the Owner. Among the types of personal data that this application collects, by itself or through third parties, there are: email address, first name, last name, phone number, city, country, cookies and usage data. Other personal data collected may be described in other sections of this privacy policy or by dedicated explanation text contextually with the data collection. The personal data may be freely provided by the User, or collected automatically when using this Application. Any use of cookies - or of other tracking tools - by this application or by the owners of third party services used by this Application, unless stated otherwise, serves to identify Users and remember their preferences, for the sole purpose of providing the service required by the User. Failure to provide certain personal data may make it impossible for this application to provide its services. Users are responsible for any personal data of third parties obtained, published or shared through this application and confirm that they have the third party's consent to provide the data to the owner.

problem: There was a need to create a platform to link businesses’ traditional FIAT bank accounts to their crypto wallets. This enables seamless execution both types of transactions while also providing tools for managing their funds. This channel faced significant challenges in increasing their online presence, engagement, and subscribers. Despite existing marketing efforts, they struggled to reach a wider audience. As of December 2023, the YouTube channel had: Their objective for 2024 was to gain 50K subscribers, increase watch time, & boost views. This channel faced significant challenges in increasing their online presence, engagement, and subscribers. Despite existing marketing efforts, they struggled to reach a wider audience. As of December 2023, the YouTube channel had: Personal vehicles are a major source of carbon emissions, significantly contributing to global climate change. In 2022, cars and vans worldwide emitted approximately 3.53 billion metric tons of CO2, accounting for about 10% of global CO2 emissions. Many drivers are unaware of how their driving habits impact the environment. A study found that while some drivers are changing their habits due to environmental concerns, a significant portion still lacks awareness about the environmental impact of their driving. This lack of awareness prevents individuals from making informed choices that could lead to more sustainable driving behaviors. Data scattered across multiple platforms in different formats and currencies. Limited insights for decision-making and financing. Trust and transparency barriers for lenders.

rava: Our partnership yielded impressive results. The documentary channel saw significant increases in: Our customized digital marketing strategy revitalized the documentary producting channel's online presence, helping them achieve their goals and grow their audience Arpatech's Marketing Team conducted a thorough analysis of it’s online presence, identifying areas for improvement & growth opportunities. We developed a comprehensive marketing strategy aligned with the channel's goals. Our solutions included: Arpatech's Marketing Team conducted a thorough analysis of it’s online presence, identifying areas for improvement & growth opportunities. We developed a comprehensive marketing strategy aligned with the channel's goals. Our solutions included: Arpatech's Marketing Team conducted a thorough analysis of it’s online presence, identifying areas for improvement & growth opportunities. We developed a comprehensive marketing strategy aligned with the channel's goals. Our solutions included: Optimized YouTube channel and video content Created informative blog posts, polls, and engaging social media content Ensured consistent posting & engagement on social media platforms (Meta, X, TikTok) Collaborated with relevant social communities and groups Targeted Facebook Ads campaigns to promote Rava's documentaries Utilized targeted Google Ads to reach desired audiences in specific regions Collaborated with influencers and bloggers for shoutouts and reviews Organized Red Carpet and Screening events for brand awareness and media coverage Arpatech's Marketing Team conducted a thorough analysis of it’s online presence, identifying areas for improvement & growth opportunities. We developed a comprehensive marketing strategy aligned with the channel's goals. Our solutions included:

resource: IT Management Services Provider | IT Support Services Resource Management Services | Managed IT Services Hire an IT Consultant | IT Professional | IT Company Human Resource Management Expert | IT Consultant Our Expertise and Services for IT Staff WE HELP YOU GROW YOUR BUSINESS Regardless of the scale and size, companies should be able to quickly ramp up development for new products or new technologies. Delivering best-in-class technical talent for an overall better value, we connect businesses with seasoned developers, allowing you to grow your team swiftly and efficiently. A Win-win Punch for Your Business In the dynamic world of staff augmentation, fostering a collaborative environment and offering unwavering support keep the team firing on all cylinders. This strategic approach not only fills skill shortages and meets project needs but also provides easy access to specialized expertise, saving precious time and money, reducing risk, and freeing up resources to focus on core competencies. Our team of experienced IT professionals can help you with all of your IT resource and allocation needs, from software development to website development to mobile app development. In the dynamic world of staff augmentation, fostering a collaborative environment and offering unwavering support keep the team firing on all cylinders. This strategic approach not only fills skill shortages and meets project needs but also provides easy access to specialized expertise, saving precious time and money, reducing risk, and freeing up resources to focus on core competencies. Everything You Need to Know about IT Staff Augmentation. In the dynamic world of staff augmentation, fostering a collaborative environment and offering unwavering support keep the team firing on all cylinders. This strategic approach not only fills skill shortages and meets project needs but also provides easy access to specialized expertise, saving precious time and money, reducing risk, and freeing up resources to focus on core competencies. Our team of experienced IT professionals can help you with all of your IT resource and allocation needs, from software development, to website development to mobile app development.

result: Our solution allowed the company’s users to efficiently manage their businesses’ FIAT and crypto payments. Key features of the application include: Making internal transfers between all types of wallets Sharing editable blockchain addresses for transactions Debiting USDC and sending corresponding USDC amounts Viewing all successful, failed, and pending transactions

results: Local data preprocessing and aggregation at the edge reduced the overall volume of data transmitted to the cloud. On-premises data normalization minimized latency, allowing faster decision-making for time-sensitive operations. Local data preprocessing and aggregation at the edge reduced the overall volume of data transmitted to the cloud. On-premises data normalization minimized latency, allowing faster decision-making for time-sensitive operations. Local data preprocessing and aggregation at the edge reduced the overall volume of data transmitted to the cloud. This EV service platform brings measurable improvements for individual users, delivering several key benefits: Our targeted digital marketing efforts yielded significant growth across key performance metrics: The implementation of Arpatech's digital marketing strategies led to significant improvements: Direct endpoint probing minimized false positives & expedited the identification of genuine connectivity issues. The centralized monitoring through Application Insights allowed rapid identification & isolation of connectivity issues, reducing detection time from hours to minutes. Automated alerts ensured the operations team could promptly address problems, improving the efficiency of the SRE team. With comprehensive telemetry data, Arpatech gained deeper insights into OT system performance and reachability trends, aiding in proactive maintenance. In 2022, Users of this app collectively planted over 100,000 trees, directly contributing to global reforestation efforts The app has empowered users to monitor and reduce their carbon footprint effectively by connecting to a wide range of vehicles, including both electric & internal combustion engine (ICE) cars. Through features like environmental impact tracking and tree planting initiatives, This app has made it easier for individuals to take meaningful steps towards a more sustainable future. Since its launch in 2021, the platform achieved significant milestones in promoting eco-friendly driving and environmental awareness: The company’s comprehensive approach to procurement goes beyond simply fulfilling client orders. The company focuses on building strong relationships through providing procurement, services, and even facilitating the disposal of pre-loved IT equipment. In addition, by proactively addressing challenges and exceeding client expectations, the company builds a foundation of customer satisfaction, leading to increased brand loyalty and positive word-of-mouth referrals. By implementing this solution, MSP team successfully addressed the client's requirement for immediate patch installation in the AVD environment. The proactive approach to patch management, leveraging Python scripting, PowerShell automation, centralized repository, and robust monitoring and validation mechanisms, ensured timely and efficient patch deployment, enhancing the security and reliability of the AVD infrastructure. By implementing this solution, MSP team successfully addressed the client's requirement for immediate patch installation in the AVD environment. The proactive approach to patch management, leveraging Python scripting, PowerShell automation, centralized repository, and robust monitoring and validation mechanisms, ensured timely and efficient patch deployment, enhancing the security and reliability of the AVD infrastructure. A limitation we encountered is that certain critical patches may not promptly appear on virtual machines due to Microsoft's rollout phases. Our client requires immediate installation of these patches as soon as they are released on the Windows Update Catalog. Results With the implementation of the integration platform, customers benefit from: The organization’s Back Office Team stands as a strong pillar of support, embodying the values of dedication, efficiency, and excellence. Their diligent efforts ensure the smooth functioning of administrative processes, enabling the organization to focus its energies on driving a positive change in the world's forests and communities. Enhanced ResilienceAccess to insights and reports to facilitate better planning and optimization of cloud spending. The use of Azure DevOps pipelines for DR activation streamlined the recovery process, making it faster and reducing human errors. Continuous replication of databases ensured that no data was lost and that the system could quickly switch to the secondary site without data inconsistencies. Terraform allowed rapid provisioning of resources when scaling from the pilot light to full capacity, accommodating sudden spikes in demand. The pilot light approach ensured that critical components were always on standby, drastically reducing the time to recovery. The company’s app is designed to change over time, leveraging new technologies and reflecting users' changing needs. A strong foundation is the primary goal of the initial proof of concept, with ongoing improvement based on user feedback planned. By using an iterative process, the app is kept current, efficient, and in line with user expectations. The company’s app is designed to change over time, leveraging new technologies and reflecting users' changing needs. A strong foundation is the primary goal of the initial proof of concept, with ongoing improvement based on user feedback planned. By using an iterative process, the app is kept current,befficient, and in line with user expectations. With the implementation of the integration platform, customers benefit from: 1. A user-friendly interface for discovering, browsing, and procuring cloud services, enhancing their overall experience. 2. Access to insights and reports to facilitate better planning and optimization of cloud spending. 3. Simplified billing processes with consolidated invoices, eliminating the need for multiple license signings. Local data preprocessing and aggregation at the edge reduced the overall volume of data transmitted to the cloud On-premises data normalization minimized latency, allowing faster decision-making for time-sensitive operations. Buffering and local data handling ensured data continuity even with intermittent connectivity. Optimized data flows and lightweight containers maximized resource efficiency on the edge devices. RKE’s lightweight, consistent Kubernetes distribution enabled seamless scaling across the network of edge devices. With the implementation of the integration platform, customers benefit from: With the implementation of the integration platform, customers benefit from: With the implementation of the integration platform, customers benefit from: With the implementation of the integration platform, customers benefit from: A user-friendly interface for discovering, browsing, and procuring cloud services, enhancing their overall experience. Access to insights and reports to facilitate better planning and optimization of cloud spending. A user-friendly interface for discovering, browsing, and procuring cloud services, enhancing their overall experience. - Implementation of a revolutionary solution for the company’s renewal process - Achievement of widespread simplification and automation - A substantial drop in manual efforts for the renewal team - Improved efficiency in subscription data management 4. Improved integration across the global IT solutions provider’s business divisions, leading to enhanced operational efficiency and revenue reporting. 5. Streamlined procurement processes for vendors, resulting in reduced time-to-market and increased scalability. 6. Enhanced customer support and service management through the dedicated Sales/Operation organization, ensuring a high level of satisfaction. A user-friendly interface for discovering, browsing, and procuring cloud services, enhancing their overall experience. Simplified billing processes with consolidated invoices, eliminating the need for multiple license signings. Improved integration across the global IT solutions provider’s business divisions, leading to enhanced operational efficiency and revenue reporting. Streamlined procurement processes for vendors, resulting in reduced time-to-market and increased scalability. Enhanced customer support and service management through the dedicated Sales/Operation organization, ensuring a high level of satisfaction. - Easy tracking of expiring subscriptions - Recognition of potential sales opportunities - Dashboard of key metrics in a visually attractive manner The Back Office Team's dedication to efficiency and streamlined processes translates into measurable results for the organization, including increased frontline team productivity, reduced operational costs, improved data accuracy and compliance, enhanced decision-making, and increased customer and stakeholder satisfaction. Results The Back Office Team's dedication to efficiency and streamlined processes translates into measurable results for the organization, including increased frontline team productivity, reduced operational costs, improved data accuracy and compliance, enhanced decision-making, and increased customer and stakeholder satisfaction. Thanks to the app, people worldwide can actively practice sustainable behavior and contribute to a greener future. The software allows users to have a good impact on the environment while benefiting from a more sustainable lifestyle by offering an excellent platform for recording, appreciating, and rewarding eco-friendly behaviors.

scalable: Terraform templates and Kubernetes ensured infrastructure could scale dynamically with demand during the event. Kubernetes provided automatic failover and load balancing, ensuring uninterrupted streaming and stadium services. The digital twin system enabled quick and accurate adjustments to stadium facilities. Automated resource provisioning and cleanup reduced overall infrastructure costs by up to 25%. Preconfigured Terraform templates reduced infrastructure deployment time by 50%, with Kubernetes minimizing the need for manual scaling. The digital twin solution empowered the organization to adjust stadium lights, temperature, and crowd flow in real-time, ensuring a seamless visitor experience. The framework provided a unified view of the organization's entire hybrid infrastructure, facilitating proactive monitoring & management. Alerts enabled quick detection and resolution of issues, reducing mean time to resolution (MTTR). Detailed telemetry helped optimize resource usage, improving application performance and reducing operational costs. The monitoring solution met the organization's data security policies while ensuring the confidentiality of sensitive information. Interactive dashboards improved the efficiency of monitoring processes, reducing the time spent on routine monitoring tasks. A simplified, all-in-one platform for EV owners to manage their vehicles, monitor energy usage, and access charging stations effortlessly. The user-friendly design enhances customer satisfaction, making EV management intuitive and hassle-free. Detailed analytics, reports, and insights into energy consumption and charging costs, empowering users to optimize their EV usage & save money. The consolidated billing system ensures that all services charging, subscriptions are billed in a single, easy-to-manage invoice. The strong referral system drives organic growth, as customers can easily invite others to join the platform, further expanding the user base. With a consolidated billing system, users no longer have to juggle multiple invoices from different service providers. This significantly reduces administrative overhead, allowing for more efficient financial management. We achieved a 18,400-visitor surge in organic website traffic in 2023. Our approach enhanced the brand's online visibility, generating buzz and sparking meaningful conversations. Achieved 189% increase, reaching 797K users by December 2023. Witnessed a 35% boost in sales through performance marketing campaigns Established a robust online presence, positioning the online pharmacy as a reliable name in the market.

seamless: External users (clients) have access to view the engagement templates used by their company and take advantage of the consulting services. Improved openness and productive communication between internal and external users. Increased effectiveness and complete uniformity across different instances. Empowered clients to have seamless experiences across all engagements.

section: Fetching data from Amazon, eBay, Shopify, & 3PL systems like ShipBob. Converting currencies to USD and mapping diverse formats & languages. Providing insights on sales trends, inventory valuation, and financial forecasting. Generating hashed data tables every 30 days, with a subset used to create NFT documents on Centrifuge for transparency. Converting currencies to USD and mapping diverse formats & languages. Providing insights on sales trends, inventory valuation, and financial forecasting. Generating hashed data tables every 30 days, with a subset used to create NFT documents on Centrifuge for transparency. Eliminated manual errors and reduced analysis time. Empowered sellers with actionable financial data. Enhanced trust with lenders via blockchain documentation. Designed for future enhancements like automated billing.

sections: The agent was designed to probe endpoints directly, reducing dependency on the intermediate hops in the data pipeline. Each OT endpoint was monitored for availability, latency, & other connectivity metrics. This app connects to a wide range of vehicles, including both electric and internal combustion engine (ICE) cars, ensuring broad accessibility for users. The app uses Smartcar's API to enroll drivers across 24 vehicle brands without the extensive cost of building and maintaining custom integrations themselves. Azure Application Insights provided unified telemetry storage, anomaly detection, & visualization. Automated alerts enabled rapid issue detection and timely response by the operations team. The app calculates the environmental impact of your driving habits by assessing emissions and translating this information into tangible metrics, such as the number of trees needed to offset the carbon produced. This approach simplifies complex environmental data, making it relatable and actionable for users. Alerts from Azure Monitor were configured & integrated with MS Teams, so respective team(s) can be alerted promptly about the event. Choose from basic, premium, and unlimited plans, tailored to suit various driving habits and charging frequency. The platform offers flexibility for both casual drivers and frequent users, ensuring there's an option that meets every need. For every tree saved by electric vehicle (EV) drivers, Caremiles plants a tree on their behalf at no cost. This initiative encourages the adoption of EVs & rewards users for their eco-friendly choices. Affordable Tree Planting for Gas Vehicle Drivers: Drivers of gas-powered vehicles can plant trees to offset their carbon emissions at a cost of $0.50 per tree, with funds directed towards planting efforts in Sub-Saharan Africa. This transparent process allows users to make a tangible impact on the environment. Fetching data from Amazon, eBay, Shopify, & 3PL systems like ShipBob. Converting currencies to USD and mapping diverse formats & languages. Providing insights on sales trends, inventory valuation, and financial forecasting. Generating hashed data tables every 30 days, with a subset used to create NFT documents on Centrifuge for transparency. This platform fosters a sense of community by enabling users to create teams, invite friends and family, and collectively work towards environmental goals. This social aspect enhances user engagement and motivation, making the journey towards sustainability a shared experience. Eliminated manual errors and reduced analysis time. Empowered sellers with actionable financial data. Enhanced trust with lenders via blockchain documentation. Designed for future enhancements like automated billing.

service: Our digital branding services make your firm standout. By promoting a strong brand image across digital platforms, we ensure your products and services stay memorable and visible to the right consumer base. Want to Get Noticed? Whether it’s Google or Bing, we optimize your online presence with Google Ads, PPC, Performance Max campaigns, and many other marketing techniques. With social media marketing agency services, you can help connect your business with the right people. We create and manage your posts, run ads, and build your brand that increases customer interaction. Our organic search engine optimization services employ the latest techniques to assess, analyze, and strategize technical SEO that streamlines your website's content and structure effortlessly. Let us help you create engaging content that drives website traffic and boosts conversions. Our B2B content marketing services are designed to attract the right audience to your digital and social platforms. We offer targeted email marketing services that reach customers directly through their inboxes. We curate well-designed emails with special offers, updates, and news about your products and keep you connected to your loyal consumers. Boost your online store’s sales with our e-commerce marketing agency services that create and manage strategies to run ads, optimize your product listings, and send targeted promotions, improving your overall sales and traffic. Our influencer marketing services connect you with relevant social media personalities who promote your products to their followers. Their influence helps build trust and increase your brand’s visibility, attracting potential customers to your base. Experience tailored guidance from top industry experts who will encourage you to embrace the challenges of building a startup, helping you succeed and achieve your business goals. Take advantage of our Google Ads PPC, Performance Max campaigns, display advertising, and intelligent marketing techniques to optimize your online advertising and reach a wider audience. Boost your social media marketing efforts with our Meta drive setup, pixel tracking, and creative artwork to achieve a high return on ad spend (ROAS). Our SEO services employ cutting-edge techniques to assess, analyze, and strategize technical search engine optimization (SEO) with the aim of optimizing your website's content and structure. Let us help you produce engaging content that drives website traffic and boosts conversions—thanks to our exceptional B2B content marketing techniques Enhance your marketing funnel with targeted drip email campaigns, leveraging the power of personalized emails to engage and nurture your audience effectively. Our wide-ranging e-commerce marketing services encompass e-commerce PPC management, social media branding, and SEO to drive sales and thrive in the industry. Our influencer marketing service empowers you to supercharge your brand's reach and engagement. We connect you with top-tier influencers in your niche, creating buzz and driving site traffic. Our expert team that offers digital branding services, helps your firm stand out online. We create and promote a strong image of your brand across digital platforms. Our goal is to make your business memorable for the right audience and build a consistent online presence. Do you want to get noticed? Our professional search engine marketing services are here to rescue you. From Google and Yahoo to Bing, take advantage of our Google Ads PPC, Performance Max campaigns, and intelligent marketing techniques to optimize your online advertising. With social media marketing agency services, you can help connect your business with the right people on different digital platforms. We create and manage your posts, run ads, and build your brand that increases customer interaction and grows your business. Let us help you produce engaging content that drives website traffic and boosts conversions with the help of our exceptional B2B content marketing services that invite the right people to your digital and social platforms. We offer targeted email marketing services to help your business reach customers directly through their inboxes. We create and send well-designed emails with special offers, updates, and news about your products or services and keep you connected to your loyal consumers. Boost your online store’s sales with our e-commerce marketing agency services that attract consumers to your website. We create and manage strategies to run ads, optimize your product listings, and send targeted promotions, improving your overall sales and traffic. With our influencer marketing services, we connect you with popular social media personalities who can promote your products or services to their followers. Their influence helps build trust and increase your brand’s visibility, attracting potential customers to your base. Our expert team that offers digital branding services, helps your firm stand out online. We create and promote a strong brand image across digital platforms, ensuring your business is memorable to the right audience and maintains a consistent online presence. Want to Get Noticed? Our professional search engine marketing services are here to help. Whether it’s Google, Yahoo, or Bing, we optimize your online advertising with Google Ads PPC, Performance Max campaigns, and intelligent marketing techniques to boost your visibility and drive results. Let us help you create engaging content that drives website traffic and boosts conversions. Our exceptional B2B content marketing services are designed to attract the right audience to your digital and social platforms. We offer digital branding services that make your firm standout. By promoting a strong brand image across digital platforms, wee ensure your business is memorable to the right audience and maintains a consistent online presence. Our digital branding services make your firm standout. By promoting a strong brand image across digital platforms, we ensure your business stays memorable. Want to Get Noticed? Whether it’s Google, Yahoo, or Bing, our professional search engine marketing services optimize your online advertising with Google Ads PPC, Performance Max campaigns, and intelligent marketing techniques. Our digital branding services make your firm standout. By promoting a strong brand image across digital platforms, we ensure your business stays memorable and visible to the right consumer base.

services: We provide scalable, secure, and efficient managed cloud services, which reduce overall IT costs. Additionally, we offer expert, dedicated, and around-the-clock support to our clients. We take great pride in employing data-driven and highly targeted strategies, designed to help you attain organic growth, enhance visibility, and drive high-quality traffic to your website. With our comprehensive DevOps services, we streamline your development processes, enhance collaboration, and accelerate delivery with continuous integration. We take great pride in employing data-driven and highly targeted strategies, designed to help you attain organic growth, enhance visibility, and drive high-quality traffic to your website. We transform businesses through innovative Business Process Reengineering (BPR), revealing new possibilities for success, empowering growth, and redefining efficiency with groundbreaking BPO solutions that drive results. We focus on developing sophisticated, complex, and enterprise-level software, including web apps and mobile apps, aimed at boosting efficiency, enhancing productivity, and supporting data management. We take great pride in employing data-driven and highly targeted strategies, designed to help you attain organic growth, enhance visibility, and drive high-quality traffic to your website. We take great pride in employing data-driven and highly targeted strategies, designed to help you attain organic growth, enhance visibility, and drive high-quality traffic to your website. We take great pride in employing data-driven and highly targeted strategies, designed to help you attain organic growth, enhance visibility, and drive high-quality traffic to your website. We take great pride in employing data-driven and highly targeted strategies, designed to help you attain organic growth, enhance visibility, and drive high-quality traffic to your website. We focus on developing sophisticated, complex, and enterprise-level software solutions, including web apps and mobile apps, aimed at boosting efficiency, enhancing productivity, and supporting data management. We provide scalable, secure, and efficient cloud solutions, which reduce overall IT costs. Additionally, we offer expert, dedicated, and around-the-clock support to our clients. We deliver successful technology solutions with 24/7 support, achieving 95% customer satisfaction and trusted by over 6500 customers. We transform businesses through innovative Business Process Reengineering (BPR), revealing new possibilities for success, empowering growth, and redefining efficiency with groundbreaking BPO solutions that drive results. We focus on developing sophisticated, complex, and enterprise-level software, including web apps and mobile apps, aimed at boosting efficiency, enhancing productivity, and supporting data management. We provide scalable, secure, and efficient managed cloud services, which reduce overall IT costs. Additionally, we offer expert, dedicated, and around-the-clock support to our clients. With our comprehensive DevOps services, we streamline your development processes, enhance collaboration, and accelerate delivery with continuous integration.

software: Software Development Company | Software Developer Custom Software Development Company | Agile SDLC Software Consultant | Rapid Application Development Java Software Development | Software Programmer Offshore Software Development Company | SDLC Our cost-effective and time-efficient software development life cycle (SDLC) allows our experts to design and build high-quality software that meets our customer’s expectations during production and beyond. We develop a cost-effective and time-efficient software development life cycle (SDLC) that our experts use to design and build high-quality software that meets customer expectations during production and beyond. Tools & Technologies in Software Development Our software development team brings deep expertise in their respective domains, which is evident in the advanced tools and technologies we employ. Our experience spans a range of advanced solutions, each chosen to enhance our development process and deliver the finest results. These are the tools and technologies our developers specialize in that showcase their skills and commitment to excellence: We provide a wide range of services, including designing and developing custom apps, CRMs, inventory management systems, SaaS programs, lead generation tools, financial management solutions, and database gateways. Our success comes from using innovative technologies to make a positive impact in the IT industry. Explore our mobile app development services, where we help businesses create custom apps for both iOS and Android devices, customized to meet all your business requirements. Our diverse body of work in the software field is reflective of our experts’ specialty in their specific areas of endeavor. Here are some key tools and technologies we use. We offer a range of services in designing and developing apps as well as a variety of SaaS programs, CRMs and lead generation tools, inventory management systems, financial management solutions, and database portals. Our remarkable success is rooted in one key secret: to use our ingenuity and smart solutions to bring about a positive change in the software industry. Find answers to all your queries about our Software Development Services here, If you have any more questions, contact us today! Everything You Need to Know about Software Development. Our diverse body of work in the software field is reflective of our expert’s specialty in their specific areas of endeavor. Here are some key tools and technologies we use. We offer a range of services in designing and developing apps as well as a variety of SaaS programs, CRMs and lead generation tools, inventory management systems, financial management solutions, and database portals. Our remarkable success is rooted in one key secret: to use our ingenuity and smart solutions to bring about a positive change in the software industry. Learn about our mobile app development services, which help businesses create custom apps for iOS and Android devices. We offer a range of services in designing and developing apps as well as a variety of SaaS programs, CRMs and lead generation tools, inventory management systems, financial management solutions, and database portals. Our remarkable success is rooted in one key secret: to use our ingenuity and smart solutions to bring about a positive change in the software industry. Learn about our mobile app development services, which help businesses create custom apps for iOS and Android devices. We offer a range of services in designing and developing apps as well as a variety of SaaS programs, CRMs and lead generation tools, inventory management systems, financial management solutions, and database portals. Our remarkable success is rooted in one key secret: to use our ingenuity and smart solutions to bring about a positive change in the software industry. Learn about our mobile app development services, which help businesses create custom apps for iOS and Android devices. We offer a range of services in designing and developing apps as well as a variety of SaaS programs, CRMs and lead generation tools, inventory management systems, financial management solutions, and database portals. Our remarkable success is rooted in one key secret: to use our ingenuity and smart solutions to bring about a positive change in the software industry. Learn about our mobile app development services, which help businesses create custom apps for iOS and Android devices. We develop a cost-effective and time-efficient software development life cycle (SDLC) that our experts use to design and build high-quality software that meets customer expectations during production and beyond. We provide a wide range of services, including designing and developing custom apps, SaaS programs, CRMs, lead generation tools, inventory management systems, financial management solutions, and database portals. Our success comes from using innovative and effective solutions to make a positive impact in the software industry. Explore our mobile app development services, where we help businesses create custom apps for both iOS and Android devices, tailored to meet your specific needs.. Find answers to all your queries about our Software Development Services here, if you have any more questions, contact us today! Our cost-effective and time-efficient software development life cycle (SDLC) allows our experts to design and build high-quality software that meets our customer’s expectations during production and beyond.

solution: A minimal version of the environment was kept running in Azure to allow quick scaling up during a disaster. Critical on-premises workloads were continuously replicated to the Azure cloud, ready to be activated. Disaster Recovery Activation via Azure DevOps Pipeline A fully automated DR activation process was implemented using Azure DevOps pipelines, ensuring a reliable and repeatable recovery process. The pipeline enabled automated environment checks, resource scaling, and routing changes. Terraform was used to automate the provisioning of additional stateless compute resources in Azure during disaster recovery. Infrastructure as Code (IaC) ensured consistent and error-free deployment across cloud resources. The primary database actively replicated data to a read replica in a secondary Azure region. This setup provided high availability and immediate failover capabilities for the database layer. A minimal version of the environment was kept running in Azure to allow quick scaling up during a disaster. Critical on-premises workloads were continuously replicated to the Azure cloud, ready to be activated. Disaster Recovery Activation via Azure DevOps Pipeline A fully automated DR activation process was implemented using Azure DevOps pipelines, ensuring a reliable and repeatable recovery process. The pipeline enabled automated environment checks, resource scaling, and routing changes. Terraform was used to automate the provisioning of additional stateless compute resources in Azure during disaster recovery. Infrastructure as Code (IaC) ensured consistent and error-free deployment across cloud resources. The primary database actively replicated data to a read replica in a secondary Azure region. This setup provided high availability and immediate failover capabilities for the database layer. A smooth user experience is provided via the company’s smartphone application, which is simple to use and navigate. The app allows people to monitor and examine their vehicle's fuel efficiency, acceleration patterns, and maintenance needs. The company lets users record and track the miles they travel in an effortless manner The app provides users with comprehensive details on the environmental effects of their transportation decisions, including fuel use and carbon emissions. With the object to ensure inclusivity and accommodating various types of vehicles, the app lets users authorize their electric vehicles, gasoline-based cars, or hybrid electric vehicles (HEVs). The company’s app enables individuals to easily register their miles traveled, with a view to providing them with a clear picture of how they travel and how much fuel they consume. The company uses big data and behavioral analytics to give individualized environmental insights. Users develop a deep awareness of their environmental impact, allowing them to make wise decisions and modify their behavior as necessary The company offers a user-friendly mobile application (available on Android and iOS systems) and an improved landing website to cater to a broad audience. All users will have accessibility and convenience thanks to this multi-platform strategy A smooth user experience is provided via the company’s smartphone application, which is simple to use and navigate. The app allows people to monitor and examine their vehicle's fuel efficiency, acceleration patterns, and maintenance needs. The company lets users record and track the miles they travel in an effortless manner The app provides users with comprehensive details on the environmental effects of their transportation decisions, including fuel use and carbon emissions. The organization serves as the first point of contact for customer inquiries, ensuring prompt and efficient resolution. Real-time support through live chat software allows them to address customer needs quickly and conveniently. The organization identifies technical issues and validates solutions, ensuring a smooth user experience for its internal and external applications. Comprehensive training on various programs and platforms empowers the organization’s staff across all departments. Leveraging MS Dynamics and Fresh Desk as their ticket management for incoming queries with customers while using it as a CRM as well. Using JIRA for the reporting bugs and validating fixes. Several company-maintained web-based portals for the tracking of daily operations of customers. Using Freshchat and LiveChat software for support. Clear and concise documentation ensures consistent and efficient execution of technical processes. The organization manages user accounts and access permissions, safeguarding data integrity. RKE was installed on edge datacenter to provide a consistent Kubernetes platform for orchestrating containerized applications. The small footprint of RKE ensured low resource usage, making it suitable for resource-constrained environments. A containerized data pipeline was deployed on the RKE clusters to discover, ingest, preprocess, and normalize OT data locally The pipeline utilized various microservices for data ingestion, transformation, and storage. OT devices communicated directly with the edge computing nodes, reducing data transmission latency. A buffer mechanism handled intermittent connectivity, ensuring that no data was lost during network outages. Incoming data was normalized into a consistent format through preprocessing microservices. Aggregation microservices further reduced data size by filtering noise before sending to centralized servers for analysis. The edge computing solution was designed to scale horizontally by adding more nodes as needed. Centralized monitoring and logging allowed the operations team to track edge node performance and quickly respond to issues. Result With the implementation of the integration platform, customers benefit from: Provision of a secure and accessible platform for storing and presenting subscription data. Provision of a centralized platform for uploading Excel sheets and editing subscription data. Roles armed with essential access rights for managing data. A user-friendly interface for discovering, browsing, and procuring cloud services, enhancing their overall experience. Access to insights and reports to facilitate better planning and optimization of cloud spending Simplified billing processes with consolidated invoices, eliminating the need for multiple license signings. Improved integration across the global IT solutions provider’s business divisions, leading to enhanced operational efficiency and revenue reporting. Streamlined procurement processes for vendors, resulting in reduced time-to-market and increased scalability. Enhanced customer support and service management through the dedicated Sales/Operation organization, ensuring a high level of satisfaction. A fully automated DR activation process was implemented using Azure DevOps pipelines, ensuring a reliable and repeatable recovery process. The pipeline enabled automated environment checks, resource scaling, and routing changes. The organization’s Back Office Team plays a pivotal role in ensuring the smooth functioning of various administrative and operational aspects of the organization. Here are some benefits that the Back Office Team brings: By handling administrative tasks efficiently, the Back Office Team allows other teams to focus on their core responsibilities, thereby enhancing overall productivity across the organization. Through streamlined processes and resource management, the Back Office Team helps optimize costs and maximize the utilization of resources, contributing to the organization's financial sustainability. With meticulous attention to detail, the Back Office Team ensures accuracy in data management, financial transactions, and compliance with regulations and organizational policies, mitigating risks and maintaining integrity. By providing timely and accurate information, reports, and analysis, the Back Office Team enables informed decision-making by the leadership, contributing to strategic planning and organizational effectiveness. Whether it's responding to inquiries, processing requests, or managing documentation, the Back Office Team plays a vital role in delivering excellent service to internal and external stakeholders, fostering trust and satisfaction. Arpatech developed a monitoring agent with integrated Azure Application Insights SDK to streamline monitoring, eliminate delays, and simplify data aggregation. Infrastructure as Code (IaC) with Terraform ensured consistent provisioning of all resources in Azure, such as VMs, Azure Kubernetes, storage, networking and App services. Version-controlled Terraform templates standardized configurations & enabled rapid scaling. Kubernetes orchestrated the deployment and management of containerized applications, providing automatic scaling and high availability. The integration with Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) ensured secure, compliant, and seamless orchestration of applications. Digital Twin System for Stadium Networking The digital twin solution ingested live data from approximately 40,000 OT devices across the stadiums. The building management system (BMS) used this data for real-time control of lighting, temperature, & crowd flow through doors & turnstiles. These disparate devices were integrated to provide a coherent assessment and management of the current stadium situation. Azure Monitor and Application Insights in conjunction with OpenTelemetry delivered real-time insights into infrastructure performance. Automated alerts allowed rapid incident detection and response. Continuous integration and deployment (CI/CD) pipelines validated infrastructure updates before deployment. Preconfigured Terraform templates enabled rapid provisioning and compliance across environments Leveraging MS Dynamics and Fresh Desk as their ticket management for incoming queries with customers while using it as a CRM as well. Leveraging MS Dynamics and Fresh Desk as their ticket management for incoming queries with customers while using it as a CRM as well. Leveraging MS Dynamics and Fresh Desk as their ticket management for incoming queries with customers while using it as a CRM as well. Leveraging MS Dynamics and Fresh Desk as their ticket management for incoming queries with customers while using it as a CRM as well. Leveraging MS Dynamics and Fresh Desk as their ticket management for incoming queries with customers while using it as a CRM as well. Leveraging MS Dynamics and Fresh Desk as their ticket management for incoming queries with customers while using it as a CRM as well. Leveraging MS Dynamics and Fresh Desk as their ticket management for incoming queries with customers while using it as a CRM as well. Leveraging MS Dynamics and Fresh Desk as their ticket management for incoming queries with customers while using it as a CRM as well. Leveraging MS Dynamics and Fresh Desk as their ticket management for incoming queries with customers while using it as a CRM as well. Leveraging MS Dynamics and Fresh Desk as their ticket management for incoming queries with customers while using it as a CRM as well. Leveraging MS Dynamics and Fresh Desk as their ticket management for incoming queries with customers while using it as a CRM as well. Leveraging MS Dynamics and Fresh Desk as their ticket management for incoming queries with customers while using it as a CRM as well. Leveraging MS Dynamics and Fresh Desk as their ticket management for incoming queries with customers while using it as a CRM as well. Using JIRA for the reporting bugs and validating fixes. Several company-maintained web-based portals for the tracking of daily operations of customers. Using Freshchat and LiveChat software for support. The organization’s Back Office Team plays a pivotal role in ensuring the smooth functioning of various administrative and operational aspects of the organization. Here are some benefits that the Back Office Team brings Using Freshchat and LiveChat software for support. Several company-maintained web-based portals for the tracking of daily operations of customers. Several company-maintained web-based portals for the tracking of daily operations of customers. Several company-maintained web-based portals for the tracking of daily operations of customers. Several company-maintained web-based portals for the tracking of daily operations of customers. The organization’s Back Office Team plays a pivotal role in ensuring the smooth functioning of various administrative and operational aspects of the organization. Here are some benefits that the Back Office Team brings Leveraging MS Dynamics and Fresh Desk as their ticket management for incoming queries with customers while using it as a CRM as well. Using JIRA for the reporting bugs and validating fixes. Several company-maintained web-based portals for the tracking of daily operations of customers. Using Freshchat and LiveChat software for support. Systems and Technologies the Organization Works with By handling administrative tasks efficiently, the Back Office Team allows other teams to focus on their core responsibilities, thereby enhancing overall productivity across the organization. Through streamlined processes and resource management, the Back Office Team helps optimize costs and maximize the utilization of resources, contributing to the organization's financial sustainability. With meticulous attention to detail, the Back Office Team ensures accuracy in data management, financial transactions, and compliance with regulations and organizational policies, mitigating risks and maintaining integrity. By providing timely and accurate information, reports, and analysis, the Back Office Team enables informed decision-making by the leadership, contributing to strategic planning and organizational effectiveness. Whether it's responding to inquiries, processing requests, or managing documentation, the Back Office Team plays a vital role in delivering excellent service to internal and external stakeholders, fostering trust and satisfaction. With the object to ensure inclusivity and accommodating various types of vehicles, the app lets users authorize their electric vehicles, gasoline-based cars, or hybrid electric vehicles (HEVs). The company’s app enables individuals to easily register their miles traveled, with a view to providing them with a clear picture of how they travel and how much fuel they consume. The company uses big data and behavioral analytics to give individualized environmental insights. Users develop a deep awareness of their environmental impact, allowing them to make wise decisions and modify their behavior as necessary The company offers a user-friendly mobile application (available on Android and iOS systems) and an improved landing website to cater to a broad audience. All users will have accessibility and convenience thanks to this multi-platform strategy OpenTelemetry was used to instrument the on-premises systems, providing a standardized way to collect metrics and logs. Custom telemetry was added to capture critical application-specific data. Collected data was sent to Azure Application Insights for centralized storage, monitoring, and analysis. Azure Monitor and Log Analytics provided deeper insights and correlation across applications. Alerts were set up in Application Insights based on custom and standard telemetry data to notify the operations team of potential issues. Interactive dashboards were configured to visualize real-time metrics, helping the team monitor key performance indicators (KPIs). All telemetry data was normalized and consolidated, providing a single pane of glass for both on-premises and cloud environments. Log queries and analytics helped correlate data across different environments. Data transmission and storage in Azure were secured with encryption and managed under strict access policies. Monitoring data was collected in compliance with the organization's data security requirements. This platform addresses this issue by providing a user-friendly platform connecting to a wide range of vehicles, including electric and internal combustion engine (ICE) cars. This mobile app uses data from your car to assess its emissions and translates this information into tangible metrics, such as the number of trees needed to offset the carbon produced. This approach simplifies complex environmental data, making it relatable and actionable for users. This platform addresses this issue by providing a user-friendly platform connecting to a wide range of vehicles, including electric and internal combustion engine (ICE) cars. The app uses data from your car to assess its emissions and translates this information into tangible metrics, such as the number of trees needed to offset the carbon produced. This approach simplifies complex environmental data, making it relatable and actionable for users. This EV service app offers a comprehensive, integrated platform that addresses these challenges head-on, empowering users with the tools they need for an optimized and streamlined experience. Key features of the platform include: This EV service app offers a comprehensive, integrated platform that addresses these challenges head-on, empowering users with the tools they need for an optimized and streamlined experience. Key features of the platform include: Simplified user registration, enabling customers to easily onboard and gain access to real-time metrics on energy usage, charging sessions, and vehicle performance. An intuitive dashboard providing users with a complete overview of their energy consumption, charging history, and potential cost savings. A smart map showing real-time charging station availability, cost breakdowns, and estimated charging times, ensuring users can quickly find the best stations for their needs. Integration with leading charging networks, allowing seamless access to thousands of stations and enabling customers to charge wherever they go. Choose from basic, premium, and unlimited plans, tailored to suit various driving habits and charging frequency. The platform offers flexibility for both casual drivers and frequent users, ensuring there's an option that meets every need. Pay only for the energy you use, making the platform both cost-effective and user-friendly. The real-time billing ensures transparency and accuracy, eliminating unnecessary charges. Al algorithms predict optimal charging times, costs, and energy usage. Based on user behavior and factors such as grid conditions and electricity rates, the system provides smart charging recommendations to ensure users charge at the most cost-effective times. A robust referral program that incentivizes existing users to invite friends and family, resulting in organic growth and a vibrant community. With over 400 users enrolled in just 4 days, the referral program has proven to be highly effective in accelerating platform adoption. Arpatech's Digital Marketing team developed a customized strategy to build their digital footprint from scratch. Our approach focused on website traffic, performance marketing, collaborations & partnerships to drive substantial traffic to their website and build a stronger brand presence and conversions. We created a customized SEO blueprint, focusing on website architecture, off-page and on-page SEO, and high-quality optimized content. We participated in relevant e-commerce and logistics forums, LinkedIn groups, and Facebook communities to share content and answer questions. We ran targeted Google Ads campaigns focusing on Search and Display networks to drive traffic to their website. We designed Facebook and Instagram ad campaigns targeting business owners, e-commerce stores, and SMEs. We partnered with local e-commerce platforms to run co-branded campaigns, offering discounts and promotions. Arpatech's Digital Marketing team developed a customized strategy to build their digital footprint from scratch. Our approach focused on website traffic, performance marketing, collaborations & partnerships to drive substantial traffic to their website and build a stronger brand presence and conversions. Arpatech's Marketing Team conducted an in-depth analysis and crafted a customized digital marketing strategy focusing on organic marketing, performance marketing, and influencer collaborations. Conducted keyword analysis, optimized product pages, blogs, and website structure. Created health-focused blog posts, shared on social media, and posted health tips and user testimonials. Designed personalized email campaigns for reordering prescriptions and promotional offers. Arpatech's Marketing Team conducted an in-depth analysis and crafted a customized digital marketing strategy focusing on organic marketing, performance marketing, and influencer collaborations. Run Google Search Ads and display campaigns to retarget users. Launched targeted campaigns on Facebook and Instagram. Offered limited-time discounts & created remarketing campaigns for abandoned carts. Partnered with health bloggers and lifestyle influencers to review services. Introduced an affiliate program for influencers, rewarding them for driving traffic and conversions This platform addresses this issue by providing a user-friendly platform connecting to a wide range of vehicles, including electric and internal combustion engine (ICE) cars. This mobile appuses data from your car to assess its emissions and translates this information into tangible metrics, such as the number of trees needed to offset the carbon produced. This approach simplifies complex environmental data, making it relatable and actionable for users. This platform addresses this issue by providing a user-friendly platform connecting to a wide range of vehicles, including electric and internal combustion engine (ICE) cars.This mobile app uses data from your car to assess its emissions and translates this information into tangible metrics, such as the number of trees needed to offset the carbon produced. This approach simplifies complex environmental data, making it relatable and actionable for users. This platform addresses this issue by providing a user-friendly platform connecting to a wide range of vehicles, including electric and internal combustion engine (ICE) cars.This mobile app uses data from your car to assess its emissions and translates this information into tangible metrics, such as the number of trees needed to offset the carbon produced. This approach simplifies complex environmental data, making it relatable and actionable for users. This platform addresses this issue by providing a user-friendly platform connecting to a wide range of vehicles, including electric and internal combustion engine (ICE) cars. This mobile app uses data from your car to assess its emissions and translates this information into tangible metrics, such as the number of trees needed to offset the carbon produced. This approach simplifies complex environmental data, making it relatable and actionable for users. This EV service app offers a comprehensive, integrated platform that addresses these challenges head-on, empowering users with the tools they need for an optimized and streamlined experience. Key features of the platform include: Our developers created a flutter based cross-platform mobile app integrated with admin portal and web tracking system for the management to review and monitor rider force. We created following features in the rider app that solved most of the challenges for the client with better management of its last mile delivery workforce. These features helped with operational optimization of the client’s business through: Automated allocation of deliveries and pickups Photo capturing and geo-location of delivery address Cash wallet limitation tied to new delivery and pickup order allocation RKE was installed on edge datacenter to provide a consistent Kubernetes platform for orchestrating containerized applications. The small footprint of RKE ensured low resource usage, making it suitable for resource-constrained environments. A containerized data pipeline was deployed on the RKE clusters to discover, ingest, preprocess, and normalize OT data locally. The pipeline utilized various microservices for data ingestion, transformation, and storage. OT devices communicated directly with the edge computing nodes, reducing data transmission latency. A buffer mechanism handled intermittent connectivity, ensuring that no data was lost during network outages. Incoming data was normalized into a consistent format through preprocessing microservices. Aggregation microservices further reduced data size by filtering noise before sending to centralized servers for analysis. The edge computing solution was designed to scale horizontally by adding more nodes as needed. Centralized monitoring and logging allowed the operations team to track edge node performance and quickly respond to issues. Our solution was to create an end-to-end web platform that catered to user needs. We performed detailed requirement gathering, design and development of the application, and provided post-deployment technical support among other responsibilities.

solutions: Leveraged software to optimize routes, minimize empty miles, and pickup / delivery automation based on the route of the drivers. Implemented real-time tracking for proactive shipment management. Optimized routes and carrier selection led to significant cost savings and track rider locations in real-time. Faster and more reliable deliveries increased customer satisfaction and loyalty that helped in reducing return ratio of parcels. Streamlined processes and improved communication led to greater operational efficiency with real time communication with the riders. Integration with Bank’s Cash Deposit Machines The cash wallet management system allowed to safely and regularly deposit cash collected by riders. This helped in reducing cash deposit delays, reduced the risks of theft and improved customer payback time. This resulted in getting an edge for our client in the competitive local market. The automated database streamlined operations by: The automated database streamlined operations by:

staff: IT staff augmentation can provide you with skilled developers who can help with all aspects of software development including planning, testing, and maintenance. Quality assurance (QA) engineers and testers carry out manual and automated testing, find and report defects, and improve the functionality of software. Enrich your IT personnel with proficient system admins and network engineers to expertly manage network monitoring, security, and server administration. Empower augmented IT teams with skilled project managers to oversee and strategize IT projects, manage resources, and ensure timely deliveries. Enrich your IT staff with proficient data scientists and analysts who are skilled in extracting insights from massive datasets and building predictive models. Let expert data scientists and analysts glean insights from huge datasets, create predictive models, and offer insightful data-driven recommendations. IT staff augmentation can provide you with seasoned consultants with expertise in streamlining IT operations, and deploying new technologies. Support specialists help end users with technical concerns, debug problems, and ensure the efficient operation of IT systems are included in augmented IT teams. Let experts in cloud computing systems help with the initial setup, migration, optimization, and continuing management of cloud infrastructure.

startup: Startup Consulting Services | Startup Consulting Firm Startup Services | Business Development Services Business Startup Consulting Services for Entrepreneurs Business Startup Services | Top Startup Consultant Expedite Your Growth through Incubation and We allow you to unleash your full potential with our powerful incubation and funding program. Our team of experts provides personalized guidance, strategic support, and valuable resources tailored to your unique needs. Seize this opportunity to speed up your success. We offer a variety of services to help startups succeed, including mobile app development, digital marketing, resource allocation, and website development. Elevate your Experience through Our Exceptional We offer our realistic web development services to create a website that embodies your vision and establishes your unique brand identity! Everything You Need to Know about Startups. We allow you to unleash your full potential with our powerful incubation and funding program. Our team of experts provides personalized guidance, strategic support, and valuable resources tailored to your unique needs. Seize this opportunity to speed up your success. We offer our realistic web development services to create a website that embodies your vision and establishes your unique brand identity! We allow you to unleash your full potential with our powerful incubation and funding program. Our team of experts provides personalized guidance, strategic support, and valuable resources tailored to your unique needs. Seize this opportunity to speed up your success. We offer a variety of services to help startups succeed, including mobile app development, digital marketing, resource allocation, and website development. website development We allow you to unleash your full potential with our powerful incubation and funding program. Our team of experts provides personalized guidance, strategic support, and valuable resources tailored to your unique needs. Seize this opportunity to speed up your success. We offer a variety of services to help startups succeed, including mobile app development, digital marketing, resource allocation, and website development. Experience tailored guidance from top industry experts who will encourage you to embrace the challenges of building a startup, helping you succeed and achieve your business goals. Unleash your startup's potential with our innovative web training programs designed to boost your team's skills and drive your online presence to success. Let our scalable solutions boost the growth potential of your startup. Expand your operations effortlessly, accomplish your goals, and carve a niche to success. Our proven customer acquisition strategies enable you to power up your startup, allowing you to reach your target audience and drive conversions. Empower your startup with knowledge and tools needed to grow in a competitive setting, by leveraging expert guides and all-inclusive toolkits to curated industry insights. From strategic planning to market expansion, our comprehensive business development solutions empower you to unlock your startup’s true potential and fuel its growth.

summary: Leveraging MS Dynamics and Fresh Desk as their ticket management for incoming queries with customers while using it as a CRM as well. Using JIRA for the reporting bugs and validating fixes. Several company-maintained web-based portals for the tracking of daily operations of customers. Using Freshchat and LiveChat software for support. A smooth user experience is provided via the company’s smartphone application, which is simple to use and navigate. The app allows people to monitor and examine their vehicle's fuel efficiency, acceleration patterns, and maintenance needs. The company lets users record and track the miles they travel in an effortless manner The app provides users with comprehensive details on the environmental effects of their transportation decisions, including fuel use and carbon emissions. The organization’s frontline teams are at the forefront of tackling environmental challenges globally. However, their effectiveness hinges on a seamless and efficient back-office operation. The organization fulfills this critical role by handling essential tasks that keep the organization running smoothly. Keeping the Organization Running Smoothly The organization’s frontline teams are at the forefront of tackling environmental challenges globally. However, their effectiveness hinges on a seamless and efficient back-office operation. The organization fulfills this critical role by handling essential tasks that keep the organization running smoothly. Keeping the Organization Running Smoothly The organization’s frontline teams are at the forefront of tackling environmental challenges globally. However, their effectiveness hinges on a seamless and efficient back-office operation. The organization fulfills this critical role by handling essential tasks that keep the organization running smoothly. Keeping the Organization Running Smoothly The organization’s frontline teams are at the forefront of tackling environmental challenges globally. However, their effectiveness hinges on a seamless and efficient back-office operation. The organization fulfills this critical role by handling essential tasks that keep the organization running smoothly. Keeping the Organization Running Smoothly The organization’s frontline teams are at the forefront of tackling environmental challenges globally. However, their effectiveness hinges on a seamless and efficient back-office operation. The organization fulfills this critical role by handling essential tasks that keep the organization running smoothly. Keeping the Organization Running Smoothly The organization’s frontline teams are at the forefront of tackling environmental challenges globally. However, their effectiveness hinges on a seamless and efficient back-office operation. The organization fulfills this critical role by handling essential tasks that keep the organization running smoothly. Keeping the Organization Running Smoothly The organization’s frontline teams are at the forefront of tackling environmental challenges globally. However, their effectiveness hinges on a seamless and efficient back-office operation. The organization fulfills this critical role by handling essential tasks that keep the organization running smoothly. Keeping the Organization Running Smoothly The organization’s frontline teams are at the forefront of tackling environmental challenges globally. However, their effectiveness hinges on a seamless and efficient back-office operation. The organization fulfills this critical role by handling essential tasks that keep the organization running smoothly. Difficulty in tracking user behavior and incentivize eco-friendly practices due to a lack of effective implementation. A lack of proper monitoring and inducements to encourage people to make sustainable choices. A need for monitoring and incentivizing tools to inspire people to contribute to a cleaner environment. Difficulty in tracking user behavior and incentivize eco-friendly practices due to a lack of effective implementation. A lack of proper monitoring and inducements to encourage people to make sustainable choices. A need for monitoring and incentivizing tools to inspire people to contribute to a cleaner environment.

terms: The Arpatech Privacy Policy applies to any registration information as well as other information about you that you might send or give to Arpatech via this website. As permitted by the applicable law, the personal information collected in connection with the Website may be used for the following purposes: The Arpatech Privacy Policy applies to any registration information as well as other information about you that you might send or give to Arpatech via this website. As permitted by the applicable law, the personal information collected in connection with the Website may be used for the following purposes: The Arpatech Privacy Policy applies to any registration information as well as other information about you that you might send or give to Arpatech via this website. As permitted by the applicable law, the personal information collected in connection with the Website may be used for the following purposes: To improve the performance of the service and to support our business activities. To protect the security and integrity of our services, content and transactions. To improve the performance of the service and to support our business activities. To protect the security and integrity of our services, content and transactions. To support and customize service according to your needs and interests based on the reviews, comments and feedback provided to us. To provide you with relevant information, products, or services that you request from us through a streamlined customer support. For benchmarking, data analysis, audits, developing new products, facilitating product, software and applications development, improving our services, conducting research, analysis, studies or surveys, identifying usage trends, as well as for other analytics purposes. For data analysis, benchmarking, researching and creating new products including software, improving our services, identifying usage patterns, and other research purposes. For any other purpose disclosed to you at the time when we collect the information provided by you. Intellectual Property Rights and Use of This This website is under the control of Arpatech, which runs it directly. Arpatech assumes the entire ownership of the text, images, illustrations, graphics, logos, digital downloads, data, software, headers, icons, scripts, audio clips, and video clips. All such content is covered by copyright, trademark, service mark, and/or other intellectual property laws (which are governed by and subject to copyright laws and treaty provisions, privacy and publicity laws, and communication regulations and statutes). The Providers who have granted Arpatech with a license, another means of making their content accessible, or the right to market their goods and/or services are the owners and controllers of the Content. You may not use it in any way that could confuse Arpatech’s clients, other website visitors, or the general public. All additional copyright warnings, details, or limitations that are included in or with any Content will be adhered to by you. Except as otherwise stated, you are not permitted to use the Content for commercial purposes without the prior written consent of Arpatech or the Providers to copy, reproduce, duplicate, republish, upload, post, transmit, distribute, sell, or otherwise exploit it in any way (including by email or other electronic means). Without the prior written consent of Arpatech or the Providers, you are strictly prohibited from altering the content, using it on any other linked website or networked computer environment, or using it for any other reason than personal, noncommercial use. By doing so, you are violating the intellectual property rights and proprietary rights of the content owners. Under copyright and trademark laws, violations of these laws (referred to as "infringement") may carry serious civil liabilities or criminal penalties. You understand that intentionally violating these Terms by copying, using, or modifying any of the content, copyrights, logos, service marks, or other intellectual property on this website is prohibited. As permitted by the applicable law, the personal information collected in connection with the Website may be used for the following purposes: You agree not to use this website for any of the following purposes, which are expressly prohibited by this website's terms of service: Engage in any activity that places an unreasonably high or disproportionately large burden on the infrastructure or resources of the website, or consumes valuable time for them, such as sending or encouraging the distribution of "spam," "junk mail," chain letters, or other similar unsolicited or illegal mass e-mailing techniques. Use the IDs, numbers, or passwords for any unauthorized purpose. Access or attempt to access Arpatech's information technology systems, environments, networks, files, data, or accounts using the IDs, numbers, or passwords. Disclose the IDs, assigned confirmation numbers, or passwords to, share them with, or disclose them to any unauthorized third parties. Log in to a server or account that you are not authorized to access, access or attempt to access Arpatech's information technology systems, environments, networks, files, data, or accounts without express authorization (including access to data not meant for You). Make an effort to decipher, decompile, disassemble, alter, remove, or reverse engineer any of the HTML code or software that makes up or in any way is a component of this website. Interfere with the use or operation of this Web Site or the systems, equipment, applications, or services provided by Arpatech, its affiliated or related entities, or the Providers in any way that is not authorized, including through the use of any scripts, programs, commands, viruses, worms, web bugs, harmful code, Trojan horses, other contaminants, or other contaminants of any kind. Use any robot, spider, intelligent agent, meta-searching, other automatic device, or manual process to search, monitor or copy Arpatech’s Web Site pages or the Content in violation of the Terms or without Arpatech’s prior written permission You agree that Arpatech has the right to use all information that you choose to post in publicly accessible areas of the website, including any reproductions, copies, modifications, publications, distributions, performances, and displays (in whole or in part), provided that such use complies with Arpatech's Internet Privacy Policy. You acknowledge and agree that Arpatech may keep information and may also disclose information if required to do so by law or in the good faith belief that such preservation or disclosure is necessary to: (a) comply with legal process; (b) enforce the Terms; (c) address claims that any Information violates third parties' rights; or (d) protect the business, employees, Providers, affiliated or related entities, or the public. You agree that Arpatech has the right to use all information that you choose to post in publicly accessible areas of the website, including any reproductions, copies, modifications, publications, distributions, performances, and displays (in whole or in part), provided that such use complies with Arpatech's Internet Privacy Policy. We put in place reasonable organizational and technical security steps to keep confidential information safe from theft, loss, misuse, unauthorized access, disclosure, etc. Please be aware that while we take precautions to safeguard your confidential information, there may still be security risks involved in its storage and transmission over public networks, including the internet. Personal information is sent at the sender's own risk. On this website, all information, products, and services are given "as is" and without any express or implied warranties of any kind. Arpatech disclaims all warranties, explicit or implied, including, but not limited to, implicit warranties of merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose, other than those implied by law and incapable of exclusion, limitation, or change under the laws applicable to these terms. If and when it learns of any wrongdoing, Arpatech reserves the right to inform the appropriate governmental or law enforcement authorities. You consent to hold harmless Arpatech and the Providers, including their officers, directors, employees, affiliated or related entities, agents, licensors, and suppliers, from and against any and all claims, demands, actions, costs, liabilities, losses, and damages of any kind (including attorneys' fees) brought by third parties due to your use of this website, your violation of any term of these terms, and/or any negligent or malicious acts, omissions, or wrongdoing on your part. Any such indemnification shall be subject to Arpatech's compliance with the following conditions: (a) written notice to you of any such claim, demand, action, expense, liability, loss, or threat thereof; (b) participation by you in its defense or settlement; and (c) giving you control over it. Arpatech will be allowed to take part in this fight at its own expense. In the event that Arpatech offers discussion forums, message boards, web logs, or blogs on this website (the "Forums"), you promise to use the Forums only for your own, non-commercial needs. Without Arpatech's express consent, you are not permitted to distribute or otherwise publicize any materials that include any fund-raising requests, advertisements, or written requests for products and services. You acknowledge that any materials you submit may be published again without paying you or any other person or organization anything. Additionally, you guarantee that you have released all moral rights in any uploaded works. The right (but not the obligation) to remove, move, or edit any messages that Arpatech determines in its sole discretion to be abusive, defamatory, obscene, in violation of copyright or trademark laws, in violation of these terms, or otherwise unacceptable, is reserved by Arpatech. Arpatech does not and cannot review every message posted by you or any other user in the forums. Any material that may be posted on this website through the forums is not supported by Arpatech. You agree that using any messages, information, or content from the Forums carries risks, including possible dependence on the The Arpatech Privacy Policy applies to any registration information as well as other information about you that you might send or give to Arpatech via this website. As permitted by the applicable law, the personal information collected in connection with the Website may be used for the following purposes: To improve the performance of the service and to support our business activities. By accessing or using the Website, you agree that you have read, understood, and agreed to be bound by this Privacy Policy and the Terms of Use. These Terms describe the terms of the agreement between you and Arpatech with respect to your use of this website. Please be aware, however, that Arpatech may periodically update and modify these Terms as the company considers necessary in its sole discretion.

ticketing: When a user encounters an issue, they create a ticket which is automatically generated in our system or manually by a support agent, depending on the method of submission. The ticket is categorized by issue type and urgency: automated for Level 1 (L1), and assigned to a support agent for complex Level 2 (L2) or Level 3 (L3) tickets. The assigned support works to resolve the issue and if it requires more specialized knowledge, the ticket is escalated to the next level for a swift and effective resolution. The user is notified after the issue is resolved. The ticket changes its status and alerts the user of the change. By proactively identifying and resolving potential issues before they impact your business, we minimize downtime. Additionally, we assist remote employees through phone, email, or remote desktop software, offering guidance on the use of collaboration tools and cloud-based applications. We deliver fast, cost-effective incident resolution and proactive problem management by conducting root cause analysis and maintaining continuous monitoring of your IT infrastructure. This approach helps prevent issues before they arise, ensuring operational stability. By proactively identifying and resolving potential issues before they impact your business, we minimize downtime. Additionally, we assist remote employees through phone, email, or remote desktop software, offering guidance on the use of collaboration tools and cloud-based applications.

title: Future: How It Will Transform the World

tools: Our DevSecOps teams utilize the SAST tools to detect custom or proprietary code for any kind of design flaw and coding issues that could result in exploitation. Unlike DevOps tools, these SAST tools are used during the DevSecOps SDLC, securing the entire development phase. Our team employs a range of SCA tools to examine source code and binaries, identifying known vulnerabilities in open-source and third-party components. These SCA tools also help our DevSecOps developers assess security and license risks, enabling us to prioritize and address issues more effectively. DevSecOps Teams Use Interactive Application Security Testing (IAST) IAST tools, working in the background during manual or automated functional tests, analyze web application runtime behavior. Our team employs IAST tools to configure runtime vulnerabilities and automatically replays and tests the evidence which provides comprehensive insights to our DevSecOps developers. This way, IAST provides the line of vulnerable code to the developers directly, enabling them to focus directly on the critical weak point. DAST is an automated black-box testing technology that simulates a hacker's interactions with your web application or API. The developers at Arpatech use DAST to evaluate applications through network connections and by analyzing the client-side rendering of the application, enabling us to identify any and all outer-layer vulnerabilities. Sometimes security tools like AST and network controls often lack real-time visibility into data and events, which can lead to unnoticed security gaps. RASP (Runtime Application Self-Protection) addresses this by offering real-time protection. RASP personnel use runtime instrumentation to monitor inputs, block harmful data, and prevent tampering. They can either detect and report harmful entries or automatically block them, enabling seamless DevSecOps development.

we: We target the right audience: With our on-page and off-page optimization, competitive and keyword analysis, and SEO audits. We Stay Ahead of the Curve: Leveraging the latest digital marketing trends and technologies to keep you ahead of the competition. We Craft Comprehensive Strategies: Tailored to boost your online presence and drive business growth. We Convert Visitors into Customers: With persuasive content and optimized user experiences. We Measure and Optimize: Tracking key metrics to refine our approach and maximize ROI. We are targeting the right audience for you with our on-page and off-page optimization, competitive and keyword analysis, and SEO audits.1 We are targeting the right audience for you with our on-page and off-page optimization, competitive and keyword analysis, and SEO audits.2 We are targeting the right audience for you with our on-page and off-page optimization, competitive and keyword analysis, and SEO audits.3 We are targeting the right audience for you with our on-page and off-page optimization, competitive and keyword analysis, and SEO audits.4 We are targeting the right audience for you with our on-page and off-page optimization, competitive and keyword analysis, and SEO audits.5 We are targeting the right audience for you with our on-page and off-page optimization, competitive and keyword analysis, and SEO audits.6 We are targeting the right audience for you with our on-page and off-page optimization, competitive and keyword analysis, and SEO audits.

web: Web App Development Company | Web App Development Service Web App Design Agency | UI UX Design Web App Development Service | Web App Design Service Custom Web App Development Company | Web App Development Agency Web Design and Development | Web Design Company Web Design and Development Agency | UI UX Design Ecommerce Web Development | Magento Developer Shopify Web Developer | Ecommerce Web Developer Our job is to create emotionally engaging experiences that showcase your brand’s unique story. Using the latest technology for web development is necessary for this. With our proven strategies, we use reliable tools and tech that deliver user-friendly solutions that connect and captivate. So, tell us, are you ready to launch a successful startup? Let Arpatech work on your vision with expert web design developers, software development teams, and mobile app development services. Right Tools & Technology Make All the Creating user experiences that are emotionally stirring and provide a visual tour of your brand's uniqueness requires the right technology and platform. By implementing tried-and-tested strategies, you can achieve a dependable and user-friendly experience. Everything You Need to Know about Web Design, Development and Ecommerce Solution. Everything You Need to Know about Website Design, Development and Ecommerce Solution. Creating user experiences that are emotionally stirring and provide a visual tour of your brand's uniqueness requires the right technology and platform. By implementing tried-and-tested strategies, you can achieve a dependable and user-friendly experience. Looking to build a successful startup? We can help you with your website design, software development, and mobile development. Creating user experiences that are emotionally stirring and provide a visual tour of your brand's uniqueness requires the right technology and platform. By implementing tried-and-tested strategies, you can achieve a dependable and user-friendly experience. Looking to build a successful startup? We can help you with your website design, software development, and mobile development. Creating user experiences that are emotionally stirring and provide a visual tour of your brand's uniqueness requires the right technology and platform. By implementing tried-and-tested strategies, you can achieve a dependable and user-friendly experience. Looking to build a successful startup? We can help you with your website design, software development, and mobile development. Creating user experiences that are emotionally stirring and provide a visual tour of your brand's uniqueness requires the right technology and platform. By implementing tried-and-tested strategies, you can achieve a dependable and user-friendly experience. Looking to build a successful startup? We can help you with your website design, software development, and mobile development. Creating user experiences that are emotionally stirring and provide a visual tour of your brand's uniqueness requires the right technology and platform. By implementing tried-and-tested strategies, you can achieve a dependable and user-friendly experience. Looking to build a successful startup? We can help you with your website design, software development, and mobile app development. Creating user experiences that are emotionally stirring and provide a visual tour of your brand's uniqueness requires the right technology and platform. By implementing tried-and-tested strategies, you can achieve a dependable and user-friendly experience. Looking to build a successful startup? We can help you with your website design, software development, and mobile app development. Creating user experiences that are emotionally stirring and provide a visual tour of your brand's uniqueness requires the right technology and platform. By implementing tried-and-tested strategies, you can achieve a dependable and user-friendly experience. Looking to build a successful startup? We can help you with your website design, software development, and mobile app development. Our job is to create emotionally engaging experiences that showcase your brand’s unique story. Using the latest technology for website development is necessary for this. With our proven strategies, we use reliable tools and tech that deliver user-friendly solutions that connect and captivate. So, tell us, are you ready to launch a successful startup? Let Arpatech work on your vision with expert website design developers, software development teams, and mobile app development services. Web App Design and Development | Web App Design Company Web Application Design and Development Agency | UI UX Design Ecommerce Web App Development | Magento Web App Development Shopify Web App Development | Ecommerce Web Application Development DevSecOps | DevSecOps service | DevSecOps roadmap DevSecOps Training | DevSecOps Tools | DevSecOps Team DevSecOps Consulting | DevSecOps Consulting Services DevSecOps Best Practices | DevSecOps Development Everything You Need to Know about DevSecOps Consulting Services. Find answers to all your queries about DevSecOps Consulting Services here, if you have any more questions, contact us today! IT Help Desk | Help Desk Technician | IT Support Specialist Help Desk IT Support | Help Desk And IT Support IT Support Help Desk | IT Help Desk Support How Does Our IT Help Desk Support Ticketing System Work? Everything You Need to Know about IT Help Desk Consulting Services. How Does Our IT Help Desk Support Ticketing System Work? Everything You Need to Know about IT Help Desk Consulting Services. Everything You Need to Know about IT Help Desk Consulting Services.

why: HTML5 Web App Design & Development Our purpose is to create meaningful yet professional web app as an HTML5 web development company. We deliver dynamic, interactive experiences that captivate your audience and improve your online visibility. Recognized as a WordPress web development company, we are committed to providing you with eye-catching designs and powerful features that strengthen your online presence and boost your business. Enterprise Web App Development Services Experience peak enterprise web development with our wide-ranging services. Utilizing cutting-edge technologies, we build robust and scalable enterprise web app development solutions that drive your business forward. Forget about every security concern with Laravel web development. Our experienced Laravel web development company, Arpatech creates high-performant web apps that captivate the viewer and enhance your business. Boost your online business with our e-commerce web app development services. We build remarkable digital storefronts with seamless user experience and robust backend capabilities, allowing you to outshine your competitors. Reflect your individuality that our extensive CMS and custom web application development services bring to you. We create a custom web app that enable you to manage content seamlessly and deliver exceptional online experiences. Turn your innovative ideas into reality with our cutting-edge web application development services. We'll create a dynamic and scalable platform that drives your app to success in this rapidly changing digital landscape. Insert efficiency into your work with custom web portal development. Expert developers at Arpatech create effective business portals, that connect people, data, and resources in one location for optimal productivity. Harness the full potential of HTML5 with our professional website design and development services. We deliver dynamic, interactive experiences that captivate your audience and improve your online visibility. Take advantage of our first-rate website design and development services. From eye-catching designs to powerful features, we create customized WordPress solutions that strengthen your online presence and boost your business. Experience the apex of enterprise web development with our wide-ranging services. Leveraging cutting-edge technologies, we build robust and scalable web solutions that drive your business forward. Unleash the full potential of Laravel with our specialized development solutions. Our experienced Laravel developers create high-performance web apps that captivate the viewer and enhance your business. Boost your online business with our e-commerce website services. We build remarkable digital storefronts with seamless user experience and robust backend capabilities, outshining your competitors. Enhance your digital presence with our extensive CMS and custom development services. Our expert team will create a customized solution that enables you to manage content seamlessly and delivers an exceptional online experience. Transform your innovative ideas into reality with our cutting-edge application website development services. We'll create a dynamic and scalable platform that drives your app to success in the digital arena. Unlock collaboration and efficiency with our web portal development. Our expert services create an effective business portal, connecting people, data, and resources in one location for optimal productivity. Our purpose is to create meaningful yet professional websites as an HTML5 web development company. We deliver dynamic, interactive experiences that captivate your audience and improve your online visibility. Recognized as a WordPress website development company, we are committed to providing you with first-rate website design and development services. From eye-catching designs to powerful features, we develop WordPress solutions that strengthen your online presence and boost your business. Experience peak enterprise web development with our wide-ranging services. Utilizing cutting-edge technologies, we build robust and scalable enterprise website development solutions that drive your business forward. Boost your online business with our e-commerce website development services. We build remarkable digital storefronts with seamless user experience and robust backend capabilities, allowing you to outshine your competitors. Reflect your individuality with the digital profile our extensive CMS and custom web application development services bring to you. Our expert team will create a custom website that enables you to manage content seamlessly and deliver an exceptional online experience. Insert collaboration and efficiency into your work with our custom web portal development. Expert developers at Arpatech create effective business portals, connecting people, data, and resources in one location for optimized productivity. Recognized as a WordPress website development company, we are committed to providing you with eye-catching designs and powerful features that strengthen your online presence and boost your business. Reflect your individuality that our extensive CMS and custom web application development services bring to you. We create a custom websites that enable you to manage content seamlessly and deliver exceptional online experiences. Insert collaboration and efficiency into your work with custom web portal development. Expert developers at Arpatech create effective business portals, connecting people, data, and resources in one location for optimized productivity. Insert collaboration and efficiency into your work with custom web portal development. Expert developers at Arpatech create effective business portals, that connect people, data, and resources in one location for optimal productivity. We embed robust security controls and practices throughout your DevOps pipeline, ensuring that security is an integral part of the development process from start to finish. Our services include real-time monitoring and feedback on your security posture, allowing you to stay ahead of potential threats and maintain a secure environment. We offer automated scanning and testing for vulnerabilities, ensuring that security checks are seamlessly integrated into your development cycle, catching issues before they become problems. Our solutions help you adhere to regulatory requirements such as HIPAA, PCI-DSS, and GDPR, ensuring that your applications and infrastructure meet the highest standards of security compliance. We promote guideline-driven coding practices to prevent vulnerabilities from the start, ensuring that your codebase is secure and resilient against any third-party malicious attacks. We assist in identifying, evaluate and mitigating all security risks, helping you protect your assets and reduce the likelihood of internal or external security breaches. We help you proactively plan and respond to security incidents, minimizing impact and ensuring swift recovery. This ensures that all business operations return to normal faster and that you face minimal downtime. Our approach promotes cross-functional teamwork between development, security, and operation teams, ensuring that all departments work together to maintain a secure environment. The skilled IT support specialists at Arpatech are always ready to assist with troubleshooting and resolving IT-related issues quickly. We provide first-level support for a wide range of software and hardware concerns, ensuring that your team can focus on their work. From technical assistance and troubleshooting for end-users to monitoring IT systems and infrastructure, our team ensures that operations remain seamless. Managing user access and security is critical to protecting your business. Our IT Support staff sets up and manages user accounts, including handling password resets and access to various applications and systems. Whether you're onboarding new employees or processing terminations, we ensure that user setups and terminations are handled promptly and securely, maintaining the integrity of your network and data. Data integrity is at the heart of every business today. We work with you to plan, implement, and manage customized backup strategies tailored to your organization's needs. Our services include assisting with regular data backups and providing cloud-based disaster recovery in the event of any issues. By continuously managing and monitoring your backup solutions, we ensure that your data remains secure, up-to-date, and recoverable. Our help desk team is dedicated to resolving your problems quickly and efficiently. We ensure that your business enjoys seamless network connectivity by continuously monitoring, managing, and maintaining your network infrastructure. In the event of a network connectivity issue, we have Network Management Systems (NMS) in place that ensure our alert management teams are quick to resolve all issues, ensuring minimal disruption to your operations. We offer a broad range of desktop and software support services to keep your workforce productive. Our team assists with application installations, configurations, and updates, while also managing desktop configurations and user profiles for optimal performance. When application-specific issues arise, we troubleshoot and resolve them to ensure uninterrupted workflows. Servers form the backbone of your IT infrastructure, and our IT support team is dedicated to providing extensive support for managing operating systems, virtualization platforms, and server applications. All our servers are backed by high-security features that also ensure that your servers run smoothly, productively, and efficiently, enabling you to focus on your business operations without worrying about server downtime or other IT-related issues. The skilled IT support specialists at Arpatech are always ready to assist with troubleshooting and resolving IT-related issues quickly. We provide first-level support for a wide range of software and hardware concerns, ensuring that your team can focus on their work. From technical assistance and troubleshooting for end-users to monitoring IT systems and infrastructure, our team ensures that operations remain seamless. The skilled IT support specialists at Arpatech are always ready to assist with troubleshooting and resolving IT-related issues quickly. We provide first-level support for a wide range of software and hardware concerns, ensuring that your team can focus on their work. From technical assistance and troubleshooting for end-users to monitoring IT systems and infrastructure, our team ensures that operations remain seamless. The skilled IT support specialists at Arpatech are always ready to assist with troubleshooting and resolving IT-related issues quickly. We provide first-level support for a wide range of software and hardware concerns, ensuring that your team can focus on their work. From technical assistance and troubleshooting for end-users to monitoring IT systems and infrastructure, our team ensures that operations remain seamless. The skilled IT support specialists at Arpatech are always ready to assist with troubleshooting and resolving IT-related issues quickly. We provide first-level support for a wide range of software and hardware concerns, ensuring that your team can focus on their work. From technical assistance and troubleshooting for end-users to monitoring IT systems and infrastructure, our team ensures that operations remain seamless.
